{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch31505\stshfloch31506\stshfhich31506\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033\themelang1033\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f34\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria Math;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0302020204030204}Calibri Light;}
{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}
{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f44\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f46\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f48\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f49\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f50\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f51\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f53\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f54\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f56\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f57\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f58\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f59\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}
{\f60\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f61\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f383\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Cambria Math CE;}{\f384\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Cambria Math Cyr;}
{\f386\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Cambria Math Greek;}{\f387\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Cambria Math Tur;}{\f390\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Cambria Math Baltic;}{\f391\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Cambria Math (Vietnamese);}
{\flomajor\f31508\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbmajor\f31518\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhimajor\f31528\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri Light CE;}{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Light Cyr;}
{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Light Greek;}{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Light Tur;}{\fhimajor\f31533\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri Light (Hebrew);}
{\fhimajor\f31534\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri Light (Arabic);}{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Light Baltic;}{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri Light (Vietnamese);}
{\fbimajor\f31538\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\flominor\f31548\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbminor\f31558\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\fhiminor\f31568\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\fhiminor\f31573\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\fhiminor\f31574\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}
{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\fbiminor\f31578\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}{\*\defchp \fs22\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505 }{\*\defpap 
\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 
\af0\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \sunhideused \spriority1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1
\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused 
Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1836097\rsid3750373\rsid6973555}{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\operator Prabhudas Pillai}
{\creatim\yr2021\mo6\dy17\hr11\min55}{\revtim\yr2021\mo6\dy17\hr12\min48}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages40}{\nofwords16941}{\nofchars96566}{\nofcharsws113281}{\vern7}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\rsidroot3750373 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 
\af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid1836097 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IMPORTANT: READ CAREFULLY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Two license agreements are presented below.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. IBM International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. IBM International Program License Agreement
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is obtaining the Program for purposes of productive use (other than evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration): By\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts the IBM International Program License Agreement, without modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is obtaining the Program for the purpose of evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration (collectively\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, an "Evaluation"): By clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts both (i) the IBM International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (the "Evaluation License"), without modification; and (ii) the IBM International Program License Agr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ement (the "IPLA"), without modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License will apply during the term of Licensee's Evaluation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The IPLA will automatically apply if Licensee elects to retain the Program after the Evaluation (or obtain additional copies of the Prog\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ram for use after the Evaluation) by entering into a procurement agreement (e.g., the IBM International Passport Advantage or the IBM Passport Advantage Express agreements).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License and the IPLA are not in effect concurrently; neither modif\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ies the other; and each is independent of the other.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The complete text of each of these two license agreements follow.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 LICENSE INFORMATION
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Programs listed below are licensed under the following License Information terms and conditions in addition \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
to the Program license terms previously agreed to by Client and IBM. If Client does not have previously agreed to license terms in effect for the Program, the International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (Z125-5543-05) applies.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Program Name \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (Program Number):
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM FileNet Content Manager Connector for Salesforce 5.6.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid3750373 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid1836097 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  (Evaluation)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following standard terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Evaluation Period
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The evaluation period begins on the date that Licensee agrees to the terms of this Agreement and ends after 30 days.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Prohibited Uses
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee may not use or authorize others to use the Program if failure of the Program could lead to death, bodily injury,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  or property or environmental damage.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Source Components and Sample Materials
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program includes components in source code form ("Source Components"), or other materials identified as Sample Materials or both. Licensee may copy and modify Source Compone\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nts and Sample Materials for internal use only within the limits of the license rights under this Agreement; provided, however, that Licensee may not alter or delete any copyright information or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample Materia
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s. IBM provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and "AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 LICENSE INFORMATION
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Programs listed below are licensed under the following License Information terms and conditions in addition to the Program license terms previously agreed t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
o by Client and IBM. If Client does not have previously agreed to license terms in effect for the Program, the International Program License Agreement (Z125-3301-14) applies.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Program Name (Program Number):
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM FileNet Content Manager Connector for Salesfo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 rce 5.6.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid6973555 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f1\fs20\insrsid1836097 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  (5724-R81)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following standard terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Limited use right
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 With the exception of Bundled Programs, all IBM software provided to Licensee with the Program can only be used to support Licensee's use of the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Principal Program under this License Information document, which means such use must be directly related to a licensed use of the Principal Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee is not authorized to use the Program to provide commercial IT services to any third party, to provide commercial hosting or timesharing, or to sublicense, rent, or lease the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Prohibited Uses
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee may not use or authorize others to us\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e the Program if failure of the Program could lead to death, bodily injury, or property or environmental damage.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Source Components and Sample Materials
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program includes components in source code form ("Source Components"), or other materials identifi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ed as Sample Materials or both. Licensee may copy and modify Source Components and Sample Materials for internal use only within the limits of the license rights under this Agreement; provided, however, that Licensee may not alter or delete any copyright 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nformation or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample Materials. IBM provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and "AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANT
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Y\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following units of measure may apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Authorized User
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Authorized User\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 is a unit of measure by which the Program can be licensed. An Authorized User is a unique person who is given access to the Program. The Program may be installed on any number of computers or servers and each Authorized User may have simultaneous access 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
o any number of instances of the Program at one time. Licensee must obtain separate, dedicated entitlements for each Authorized User given access to the Program in any manner directly or indirectly (for example: via a multiplexing program, device, or appl
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
cation server) through any means. An entitlement for an Authorized User is unique to that Authorized User and may not be shared, nor may it be reassigned other than for the permanent transfer of the Authorized User entitlement to another person.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In additi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 on to the above, the following terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Salesforce Information
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee agrees IBM may disclose Licensee's Salesforce information regarding the number of Salesforce organizations Licensee has with Salesforce (includin\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
g Salesforce organization IDs) and number of users to Salesforce, if requested.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 L/N:  L-LSWS-BZ7R49
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 D/N:  L-LSWS-BZ7R49
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 P/N:  L-LSWS-BZ7R49
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IMPORTANT: READ CAREFULLY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Two license agreements are presented below.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. IBM International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. IBM International Program License Agreement
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is obtaining the Program for purposes of productive use (other than evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration): By\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts the IBM International Program License Agreement, without modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is obtaining the Program for the purpose of evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration (collectively\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, an "Evaluation"): By clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts both (i) the IBM International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (the "Evaluation License"), without modification; and (ii) the IBM International Program License Agr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ement (the "IPLA"), without modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License will apply during the term of Licensee's Evaluation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The IPLA will automatically apply if Licensee elects to retain the Program after the Evaluation (or obtain additional copies of the Prog\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ram for use after the Evaluation) by entering into a procurement agreement (e.g., the IBM International Passport Advantage or the IBM Passport Advantage Express agreements).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License and the IPLA are not in effect concurrently; neither modif\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ies the other; and each is independent of the other.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The complete text of each of these two license agreements follow.
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 1 - General Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CL\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS. I
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 F\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS,
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM; AND
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED MEDIA AND DOCUMENTATION TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, D\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. Definitions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
"Authorized Use" - the specified level at which Licensee is authorized to execute or run the Program. That level may be measured by number of users, millions of service units ("MSUs"), Processor Value Units ("PVUs"), or other level of use specified by IBM
.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "IBM" - International Business Machines Corporation or one of its subsidiaries.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "License Information" ("LI") - a document that provides information and any additional terms specific to a Program. The Program's LI can be found in the Program's directory,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 by the use of a system command, or as a booklet included with the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "Program" - the following, including the original and all whole or partial copies: 1) machine-readable instructions and data, 2) components, files, and modules, 3) audio-visual co\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ntent (such as images, text, recordings, or pictures), and 4) related licensed materials (such as keys and documentation).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Agreement Structure
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This Agreement includes Part 1 - General Terms, Part 2 - Country-unique Terms (if any) and the LI and is the\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of the Program. It replaces any prior oral or written communications between Licensee and IBM concerning Licensee's use of the Program. The terms of Part 2 may replace or modify those of Part 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 . To the extent of any conflict, the LI prevails over both Parts.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3. License Grant
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program is owned by IBM or an IBM supplier, and is copyrighted and licensed, not sold.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM grants Licensee a limited, nonexclusive, nontransferable license to 1) down\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
load, install, and use the Program during the evaluation period up to the Authorized Use specified in the LI solely for internal evaluation, testing, or demonstration purposes on a trial basis; 2) make and install a reasonable number of copies to support 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 uch Authorized Use, and 3) make a backup copy, all provided that
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Licensee has lawfully obtained the Program and complies with the terms of this Agreement;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. the backup copy does not execute unless the backed-up Program cannot execute;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee re\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 produces all copyright notices and other legends of ownership on each copy, or partial copy, of the Program;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. Licensee maintains a record of all copies of the Program and ensures that anyone who uses the Program (accessed either locally or remotely) 1) \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
does so only on Licensee's behalf and 2) complies with the terms of this Agreement;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. Licensee does not 1) use the Program for productive purposes or\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 otherwise use, copy, modify, or distribute the Program except as expressly permitted in this Agreement; 2) reverse assemble, reverse compile, otherwise translate, or reverse engineer the Program, except as expressly permitted by law without the possibili
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
y of contractual waiver; 3) use any of the Program's components, files, modules, audio-visual content, or related licensed materials separately from that Program; 4) sublicense, rent, or lease the Program; or 5) use the Program for commercial application 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 osting; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
f. if Licensee obtains this Program as a Supporting Program, Licensee uses this Program only to support the Principal Program and subject to any limitations in the license to the Principal Program, or, if Licensee obtains this Program as a Pri
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ncipal Program, Licensee uses all Supporting Programs only to support this Program, and subject to any limitations in this Agreement. For purposes of this Item "f," a "Supporting Program" is a Program that is part of another IBM Program ("Principal Progra
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
") and identified as a Supporting Program in the Principal Program's LI. (To obtain a separate license to a Supporting Program without these restrictions, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained the Supporting Program.)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This license \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 applies to each copy of the Program that Licensee makes.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.1 Updates, Fixes, and Patches
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 When Licensee receives an update, fix, or patch to a Program, Licensee accepts any additional or different terms that are applicable to such update, fix, or patch th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
at are specified in its LI. If no additional or different terms are provided, then the update, fix, or patch is subject solely to this Agreement. If the Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.2 Term and Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
The evaluation period begins on the date Licensee agrees to the terms of this Agreement and ends upon the earliest of 1) the end of the duration or the date specified by IBM in either the License Information or a transaction docu
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ment or 2) the date on which the Program automatically disables itself. Licensee will destroy the Program and all copies made of it within ten days of the end of the evaluation period. If IBM specifies in the LI that Licensee may retain the Program, and L
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 censee elects to do so, then the Program will be subject to a different license agreement, which IBM will provide to Licensee. In addition, a charge may apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM may terminate Licensee's license if Licensee fails to comply with the terms of this Agreeme\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nt. If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of and destroy all of Licensee's copies of the Program. Any terms of this Agreement that by their nature extend beyond termination of this Agreeme
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t remain in effect until fulfilled, and apply to both parties' respective successors and assignees.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 THE PROGRAM MAY CONTAIN A DISABLING DEVICE THAT WILL PREVENT IT FROM BEING USED AFTER THE EVALUATION PERIOD ENDS. LICENSEE AGREES NOT TO TAMPER WITH THE DI\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
SABLING DEVICE OR THE PROGRAM. LICENSEE SHOULD TAKE PRECAUTIONS TO AVOID ANY LOSS OF DATA THAT MIGHT RESULT WHEN THE PROGRAM CAN NO LONGER BE USED.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 4. Charges
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 There is no charge for the use of the Program for the duration of the evaluation period.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. No\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
SUBJECT TO ANY STATUTORY WARRANTIES THAT CANNOT BE EXCLUDED, IBM MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE PROGRAM OR SUPPORT, IF ANY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTAB
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND TITLE, AND ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
LICENSEE. IN THAT EVENT, SUCH WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE MINIMUM PERIOD REQUIRED BY LAW. NO WARRANTIES APPLY AFTER THAT PERIOD. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITA
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 T\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. LICENSEE MAY HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM STATE TO STATE OR JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 THE DISCLAIMERS AND EXCLUS\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IONS IN THIS SECTION 5 ALSO APPLY TO ANY OF IBM'S PROGRAM DEVELOPERS AND SUPPLIERS.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 MANUFACTURERS, SUPPLIERS, OR PUBLISHERS OF NON-IBM PROGRAMS MAY PROVIDE THEIR OWN WARRANTIES.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM DOES NOT PROVIDE SUPPORT OF ANY KIND, UNLESS IBM SPECIFIES OTHERWISE. IN\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  SUCH EVENT, ANY SUPPORT PROVIDED BY IBM IS SUBJECT TO THE DISCLAIMERS AND EXCLUSIONS IN THIS SECTION 5.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 6. Licensee Data and Databases
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 To assist Licensee in isolating the cause of a problem with the Program, IBM may request that Licensee 1) allow IBM to\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 remotely access Licensee's system or 2) send Licensee information or system data to IBM. However, IBM is not obligated to provide such assistance unless IBM and Licensee enter a separate written agreement under which IBM agrees to provide to Licensee tha
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 type of support, which is beyond IBM's obligations in this Agreement. In any event, IBM uses information about errors and problems to improve its products and services, and assist with its provision of related support offerings. For these purposes, IBM m
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 y use IBM entities and subcontractors (including in one or more countries other than the one in which Licensee is located), and Licensee authorizes IBM to do so.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee remains responsible for 1) any data and the content of any database Licensee makes a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
vailable to IBM, 2) the selection and implementation of procedures and controls regarding access, security, encryption, use, and transmission of data (including any personally-identifiable data), and 3) backup and recovery of any database and any stored d
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ta. Licensee will not send or provide IBM access to any personally-identifiable information, whether in data or any other form, and will be responsible for reasonable costs and other amounts that IBM may incur relating to any such information mistakenly p
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ovided to IBM or the loss or disclosure of such information by IBM, including those arising out of any third party claims.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The limitations and exclusions in this Section 7 (Limitation of Liability) apply to the full extent they\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  are not prohibited by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Circumstances may arise where, because of a default on IBM's part or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate arising from or rel
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ted to each Program or otherwise arising under this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property and 2) other actual direct damages up to U.S. $10,000
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (or equivalent in local currency).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This limit also applies to any of IBM's Program developers and suppliers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its Program developers and suppliers are collectively responsible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 UND\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM, ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS OR SUPPLIERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; OR
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8. Compliance Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For purposes of this Section 8 (Compliance Verificatio\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n), "Evaluation Program Terms" means 1) this Agreement and applicable amendments and transaction documents provided by IBM, and 2) IBM software policies that may be found at the IBM Software Policy website (www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies), including but not
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 limited to those policies concerning backup, sub-capacity pricing, and migration.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The rights and obligations set forth in this Section 8 remain in effect during the period the Program is licensed to Licensee, and for two years thereafter.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.1 Verificatio\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n Process
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Licensee agrees to create, retain, and provide to IBM and its auditors accurate written records, system tool outputs, and other system information sufficient to provide auditable verification that Licensee's use of all Programs is in compliance 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
with the Evaluation Program Terms, including, without limitation, all of IBM's applicable licensing and pricing qualification terms. Licensee is responsible for 1) ensuring that it does not exceed its Authorized Use, and 2) remaining in compliance with Ev
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 luation Program Terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Upon reasonable notice, IBM may verify Licensee's compliance with Evaluation Program Terms at all sites and for all environments in which Licensee uses (for any purpose) Programs subject to Evaluation Program Terms. Such verificatio
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n will be conducted in a manner that minimizes disruption to Licensee's business, and may be conducted on Licensee's premises, during normal business hours. IBM may use an independent auditor to assist with such verification, provided IBM has a written co
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 fidentiality agreement in place with such auditor.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.2 Resolution
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM will notify Licensee in writing if any such verification indicates that Licensee has used any Program in excess of its Authorized Use or is otherwise not in compliance with the Evaluat\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ion Program Terms. Licensee agrees to promptly pay directly to IBM the charges that IBM specifies in an invoice for 1) any such excess use, 2) support for such excess use for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years, and 3) any additiona
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  charges and other liabilities determined as a result of such verification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 9. Third Party Notices
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program may include third party code that IBM, not the third party, licenses to Licensee under this Agreement. Notices, if any, for the third party cod\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e ("Third Party Notices") are included for Licensee's information only. These notices can be found in the Program's NOTICES file(s). Information on how to obtain source code for certain third party code can be found in the Third Party Notices. If in the T
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ird Party Notices IBM identifies third party code as "Modifiable Third Party Code," IBM authorizes Licensee to 1) modify the Modifiable Third Party Code and 2) reverse engineer the Program modules that directly interface with the Modifiable Third Party Co
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e provided that it is only for the purpose of debugging Licensee's modifications to such third party code. IBM's service and support obligations, if any, apply only to the unmodified Program.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement remain in full force and effect.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee is prohibited from exporting the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. Licensee authorizes International Business \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries (and their successors and assigns, contractors and IBM Business Partners) to store and use Licensee's business contact information wherever they do business, in connection with IBM products and services, or in fur
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 herance of IBM's business relationship with Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ll disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation: 1) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of for\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
m, for any claim arising out of or related to this Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose; and 2) upon the expiration of such time limit, any such claim and all respective rights related to the claim lapse.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g. Neither Licensee nor I\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 BM is responsible for failure to fulfill any obligations due to causes beyond its control.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except as permi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
tted in Subsection 7.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable) above for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real or tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i. In entering into this Agreement, neither party is \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
relying on any representation not specified in this Agreement, including but not limited to any representation concerning: 1) the performance or function of the Program, other than as expressly warranted in Section 5 (No Warranties) above; 2) the experien
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 es or recommendations of other parties; or 3) any results or savings that Licensee may achieve.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 j. IBM has signed agreements with certain organizations (called "IBM Business Partners") to promote, market, and support certain Programs. IBM Business Partner\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s remain independent and separate from IBM. IBM is not responsible for the actions or statements of IBM Business Partners or obligations they have to Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 k. The license and intellectual property indemnification terms of Licensee's other agreements w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ith IBM (such as the IBM Customer Agreement) do not apply to Program licenses granted under this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11. Geographic Scope and Governing Law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.1 Governing Law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country in which Licensee obta\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ined the Program license to govern, interpret, and enforce all of Licensee's and IBM's respective rights, duties, and obligations arising from, or relating in any manner to, the subject matter of this Agreement, without regard to conflict of law principle
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.2 Jurisdiction
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 2 - Country-unique Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For licenses granted in the countries specified below, the following terms replace or modify the re\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ferenced terms in Part 1. All terms in Part 1 that are not changed by these amendments remain unchanged and in effect. This Part 2 is organized as follows:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 11 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction);
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Americas c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ountry amendments to other Agreement terms;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Asia Pacific country amendments to other Agreement terms; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Europe, Middle East, and Africa country amendments to other Agreement terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 11 (Governing Law a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nd Jurisdiction)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.1 Governing Law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The phrase "the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license" in the first paragraph of 11.1 Governing Law is replaced by the following phrases in the countries below:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AMERICAS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Canada: th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e laws in the Province of Ontario;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) in Mexico: the federal laws of the Republic of Mexico;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(3) in the United States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: the laws of the State of New York, Unit
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d States;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) in Venezuela: the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ASIA PACIFIC
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) in Cambodia and Laos: the laws of the State of New York, United States;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (6) in Australia: the laws of the State or Territory in which the transaction is perf\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ormed;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (7) in Hong Kong SAR and Macau SAR: the laws of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR");
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (8) in Taiwan: the laws of Taiwan;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (9) in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croat\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: the laws of Austria;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, B\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
urkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar,
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the laws of France;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (11) in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: the laws of Finland;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (12) in Angola, Bahrain, Bo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
tswana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the Un
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ted Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the laws of England; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (13) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the laws of the Republic of South Africa.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.2 Jurisdiction
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following paragraph pertains to jurisdiction and replaces Subsection 11.2 (Jurisdiction) as it applies for those countries identified below:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Pr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ogram license except that in the countries identified below all disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the following courts of competent juri
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 diction:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AMERICAS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Argentina: the Ordinary Commercial Court of the city of Buenos Aires;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) in Brazil: the court of Rio de Janeiro, RJ;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) in Chile: the Civil Courts of Justice of Santiago;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) in Ecuador: the civil judges of Quito for executo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ry or summary proceedings (as applicable);
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) in Mexico: the courts located in Mexico City, Federal District;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (6) in Peru: the judges and tribunals of the judicial district of Lima, Cercado;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (7) in Uruguay: the courts of the city of Montevideo;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (8) in\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Venezuela: the courts of the metropolitan area of the city of Caracas;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (9) in Austria: the court of law in Vienna, Austria (Inner-City);
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central Africa\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Mo
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 aco, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the Commercial Court of Paris;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (11) in Angola, Bahrain, Botswa\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
na, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the United
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the English courts;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (12) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the High Court in Johannesburg;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (13) in Greece: the competent court of Athens;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (14) in Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv-Jaffa;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (15) in Italy: the courts of Milan;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (16) in Portugal: the courts of Lisbon;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (17) in Spain: the courts of Madrid; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (18) in Turkey: the Istanbul Central Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, the Republic of Turkey.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.3 Arbitration
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The fol\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
lowing paragraph is added as a new Subsection 11.3 (Arbitration) as it applies for those countries identified below. The provisions of this Subsection 11.3 prevail over those of Subsection 11.2 (Jurisdiction) to the extent permitted by the applicable gove
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ning law and rules of procedure:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ASIA PACIFIC
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Cambodia, India, Laos, Philippines, and Vietnam:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration which will be held in Singapore in accordance with \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
the Arbitration Rules of Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules") then in effect. The arbitration award will be final and binding for the parties without appeal and will be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 of law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
The number of arbitrators will be three, with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties will appoint a third arbitrator who will act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  the post of chairman will be filled by the president of the SIAC. Other vacancies will be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings will continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator will be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All proceedings will be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English language. The English language version of this Agreement prevails over any other language version.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) In the People's Republic of China:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In case no\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 settlement can be reached, the disputes will be submitted to China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission for arbitration according to the then effective rules of the said Arbitration Commission. The arbitration will take place in Beijin
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 and be conducted in Chinese. The arbitration award will be final and binding on both parties. During the course of arbitration, this agreement will continue to be performed except for the part which the parties are disputing and which is undergoing arbit
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) In Indonesia:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
claims between the parties relating to this Agreement. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation, i) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, arising out of or related to th
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s Agreement or any transaction under it more than two years after the cause of action arose; and ii) after such time limit, any legal action arising out of this Agreement or any transaction under it and all respective rights related to any such action lap
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration that shall be held in Jakarta, Indonesia in accordance with the rules of Board of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration (Badan Arbitrase Nasiona
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l Indonesia or "BANI") then in effect. The arbitration award shall be final and binding for the parties without appeal and shall be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The number of arbitrators shall be three, with ea\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ch side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties shall appoint a third arbitrator who shall act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman shall be filled by the chairman 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f the BANI. Other vacancies shall be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
he date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator shall be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All proceedings shall be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 in the English and/or Indonesian language.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Mont\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
enegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All disputes arising out of this Agreement or related to its violation, termination or nullity will be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration and\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 Conciliation of the International Arbitral Center of the Federal Economic Chamber in Vienna (Vienna Rules) by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with these rules. The arbitration will be held in Vienna, Austria, and the official language of the pr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ceedings will be English. The decision of the arbitrators will be final and binding upon both parties. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph 598 (2) of the Austrian Code of Civil Procedure, the parties expressly waive the application of paragraph 595 (1) figur
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  7 of the Code. IBM may, however, institute proceedings in a competent court in the country of installation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All disputes arising in connection w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ith this Agreement will be finally settled in arbitration that will be held in Helsinki, Finland in accordance with the arbitration laws of Finland then in effect. Each party will appoint one arbitrator. The arbitrators will then jointly appoint the chair
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 an. If arbitrators cannot agree on the chairman, then the Central Chamber of Commerce in Helsinki will appoint the chairman.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AMERICAS COUNTRY AMENDMENTS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 CANADA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 1 in the first paragraph o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f this Subsection 7.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and physical harm to real property and tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 10.h:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h.\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement or any transaction under it, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee except as permitted by the Limitation of Liability section above for bodily injur
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 y\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  (including death) or physical harm to real or tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added as Item 10.l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l. For purposes of this Item 10.l, "Personal Data" refers to in\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
formation relating to an identified or identifiable individual made available by one of the parties, its personnel or any other individual to the other in connection with this Agreement. The following provisions apply in the event that one party makes Per
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 onal Data available to the other:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Each party is responsible for complying with any obligations applying to it under applicable Canadian data privacy laws and regulations ("Laws").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Neither party will request Personal Data beyond what \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
is necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it is requested. The purpose(s) for requesting Personal Data must be reasonable. Each party will agree in advance as to the type of Personal Data that is required to be made available.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) Security Safeguards
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Each party acknowledges that it is solely responsible for determining and communicating to the other the appropriate technological, physical and organizational security measures required to protect Personal Data.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Each part\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 y will ensure that Personal Data is protected in accordance with the security safeguards communicated and agreed to by the other.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (c) Each party will ensure that any third party to whom Personal Data is transferred is bound by the applicable terms of this\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  section.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (d) Additional or different services required to comply with the Laws will be deemed a request for new services.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) Use
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Each party agrees that Personal Data will only be used, accessed, managed, transferred, disclosed to third parties or othe\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rwise processed to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) Access Requests
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Each party agrees to reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with requests to access or amend Personal Data.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Each party agrees to reimburse \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 the other for any reasonable charges incurred in providing each other assistance.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (c) Each party agrees to amend Personal Data only upon receiving instructions to do so from the other party or its personnel.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) Retention
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Each party will promptly return\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 to the other or destroy all Personal Data that is no longer necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available, unless otherwise instructed by the other or its personnel or required by law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (6) Public Bodies Who Are Subject to Public Sec\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tor Privacy Legislation
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
For Licensees who are public bodies subject to public sector privacy legislation, this Item 10.l applies only to Personal Data made available to Licensee in connection with this Agreement, and the obligations in this section apply only to Licensee, except
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 that: 1) section (2)(a) applies only to IBM; 2) sections (1)(a) and (4)(a) apply to both parties; and 3) section (4)(b) and the last sentence in (1)(b) do not apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 PERU
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the end of this Section 7 (Li\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 mitation of Liability):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, Licensee and IBM intend that the limitation of liability in this Limitation of Liability section applies to damages caused by all types of claims an
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d causes of action. If any limitation on or exclusion from liability in this section is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable with respect to a particular claim or cause of action, the parties intend that it nonetheless apply to th
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  maximum extent permitted by applicable law to all other claims and causes of action.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the end of this Subsection 7.1:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In accordance with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code, the limitat\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ions and exclusions specified in this section will not apply to damages caused by IBM's willful misconduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Section 10 as Item 10.l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l. U.\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 S. Government Users Restricted Rights - Use, duplication or disclosure is restricted by the GSA IT Schedule 70 Contract with the IBM Corporation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Item 10.e:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Each party waives any right to a jury trial in any proceeding arising o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ut of or related to this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ASIA PACIFIC COUNTRY AMENDMENTS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AUSTRALIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. No Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the first paragraph of Section 5 (No Warranties):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Although IBM specifies that there are no warranties, Licensee may have certain rights under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 or other legislation and are only limited to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Subsection 7.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Where IBM is in breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Competition and Consumer Act 2010, IBM's liability is limited to the repair or replacement of the goo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ds, or the supply of equivalent goods. Where that condition or warranty relates to right to sell, quiet possession or clear title, or the goods are of a kind ordinarily obtained for personal, domestic or household use or consumption, then none of the limi
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ations in this paragraph apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 HONG KONG SAR, MACAU SAR, AND TAIWAN
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 As applies to licenses obtained in Taiwan and the special administrative regions, phrases throughout this Agreement containing the word "country" (for example, "the country in which the\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 original Licensee was granted the license" and "the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license") are replaced with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Hong Kong SAR: "Hong Kong SAR"
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) In Macau SAR: "Macau SAR" except in the Governing Law clause (Section\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  11.1)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) In Taiwan: "Taiwan."
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 INDIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Items 1 and 2 of the first paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
1) liability for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real property and tangible personal property will be limited to that caused by IBM's negligence; and 2) as to any other actual damage arising in any situation involving nonperformance by IBM pu
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 suant to, or in any way related to the subject of this Agreement, IBM's liability will be limited to the charge paid by Licensee for the individual Program that is the subject of the claim.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Item 10.f:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. I\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
f no suit or other legal action is brought, within three years after the cause of action arose, in respect of any claim that either party may have against the other, the rights of the concerned party in respect of such claim will be forfeited and the othe
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  party will stand released from its obligations in respect of such claim.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 INDONESIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.2 Term and Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the last paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Both parties waive the provision of article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code, to the extent the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
article provision requires such court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual obligations.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 JAPAN
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added as Item 10.l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l. Any doubts concerning this Agreement will be initially resolved between us in good f\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 aith and in accordance with the principle of mutual trust.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 MALAYSIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The word "SPECIAL" in Item 7.2b is deleted.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 NEW ZEALAND
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. No Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the first paragraph of this Section 5 (No Warranties):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Although IBM specifies that there are no warranties, Licensee may have certain rights under the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 or other legislation which cannot be excluded or \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
limited. The Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 will not apply in respect of any goods which IBM provides, if Licensee requires the goods for the purposes of a business as defined in that Act.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Where Programs \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 are not obtained for the purposes of a business as defined in the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993, the limitations in this Section are subject to the limitations in that Act.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 PHILIPPINES
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the term\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s of Item 7.2b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. special (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral, incidental, or indirect damages or for any economic consequential damages; or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 SINGAPORE
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The words "SPECIAL" and "ECONOMIC" are deleted from Item 7.2b.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Item 10.h:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. Subject to the rights provided to IBM's suppliers and Program developers as provided in Section 7 above (Limitation of Liability\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
), a person who is not a party to this Agreement will have no right under the Contracts (Right of Third Parties) Act to enforce any of its terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 TAIWAN
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following sentences are deleted:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This limit also applies \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 to any of IBM's subcontractors and Program developers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its subcontractors and Program developers are collectively responsible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA (EMEA) COUNTRY AMENDMENTS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. No W\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 arranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Section 5 (No Warranties):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
European Union ("EU"), consumers have legal rights under applicable national legislation governing the sale of consumer goods. Such rights are not affected by the provisions set out in this Section 5 (No Warranties).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EU MEMBER STATES AND THE COUNTRIES IDE\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 NTIFIED BELOW
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, and any other European country that has enacted local data privacy or protection legislation similar to the EU model.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 10.d:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) Definitions - For\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  the purposes of this Item 10.d, the following additional definitions apply:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Business Contact Information - business-related contact information disclosed by Licensee to IBM, including names, job titles, business addresses, telephone numbers and email\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 addresses of Licensee's employees and contractors. For Austria, Italy and Switzerland, Business Contact Information also includes information about Licensee and its contractors as legal entities (for example, Licensee's revenue data and other transaction
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l information)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Business Contact Personnel - Licensee employees and contractors to whom the Business Contact Information relates.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (c) Data Protection Authority - the authority established by the Data Protection and Electronic Communications Legislatio\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n in the applicable country or, for non-EU countries, the authority responsible for supervising the protection of personal data in that country, or (for any of the foregoing) any duly appointed successor entity thereto.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (d) Data Protection & Electronic Co\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
mmunications Legislation - (i) the applicable local legislation and regulations in force implementing the requirements of EU Directive 95/46/EC (on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of su
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
h data) and of EU Directive 2002/58/EC (concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector); or (ii) for non-EU countries, the legislation and/or regulations passed in the applicable country re
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ating to the protection of personal data and the regulation of electronic communications involving personal data, including (for any of the foregoing) any statutory replacement or modification thereof.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (e) IBM Group - International Business Machines Corpo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ration of Armonk, New York, USA, its subsidiaries, and their respective Business Partners and subcontractors.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) Licensee authorizes IBM:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) to process and use Business Contact Information within IBM Group in support of Licensee including the provision\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 of support services, and for the purpose of furthering the business relationship between Licensee and IBM Group, including, without limitation, contacting Business Contact Personnel (by email or otherwise) and marketing IBM Group products and services (t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e "Specified Purpose"); and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) to disclose Business Contact Information to other members of IBM Group in pursuit of the Specified Purpose only.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) IBM agrees that all Business Contact Inf\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ormation will be processed in accordance with the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation and will be used only for the Specified Purpose.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) To the extent required by the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation, Licensee \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
represents that (a) it has obtained (or will obtain) any consents from (and has issued (or will issue) any notices to) the Business Contact Personnel as are necessary in order to enable IBM Group to process and use the Business Contact Information for the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Specified Purpose.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(5) Licensee authorizes IBM to transfer Business Contact Information outside the European Economic Area, provided that the transfer is made on contractual terms approved by the Data Protection Authority or the transfer is otherwise perm
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 itted under the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AUSTRIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following limitations and exclusions of IBM's liability do not apply for damages caused by gross negligence or willf\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ul misconduct.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the first sentence in the first paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Circumstances may arise where, because of a default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liabili\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ty, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In the second sentence of the first paragraph, delete entirely the parenthetical phrase:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "(including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim)".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items fo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 7.2b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. indirect damages or consequential damages; or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 BELGIUM, FRANCE, ITALY, AND LUXEMBOURG
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Section 7 (Limitation of Liability) in its entirety:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Except as otherwise provided by mandatory law:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate for any damages and loss\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
es that may arise as a consequence of the fulfillment of its obligations under or in connection with this Agreement or due to any other cause related to this Agreement is limited to the compensation of only those damages and losses proved and actually ari
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ing as an immediate and direct consequence of the non-fulfillment of such obligations (if IBM is at fault) or of such cause, for a maximum of EUR 500,000 (five hundred thousand euro).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The above limitation will not apply to damages for bodily injuries (inc\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 luding death) and damages to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM OR ANY OF ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFOR\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
MED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY: 1) LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA; 2) INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; AND / OR 3) LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, EVEN IF THEY ARISE AS AN IMME
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 D\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IATE CONSEQUENCE OF THE EVENT THAT GENERATED THE DAMAGES.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.3 Suppliers and Program Developers
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The limitation and exclusion of liability herein agreed applies not only to the activities performed by IBM but also to the activities performed by its supplie\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rs and Program developers, and represents the maximum amount for which IBM as well as its suppliers and Program developers are collectively responsible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 GERMANY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces this Section 7 (Limitation of Liability) in its entirety:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM will be liable without limit for 1) loss or damage caused by a breach of an express guarantee; 2) damages or losses resulting in bodily injury (including death); and 3\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
) damages caused intentionally or by gross negligence.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence or in breach of essential contractual obligations, IBM will be liable, regardless of the basis on which Licensee
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), per claim only up to 500,000 euro for the Program that caused the loss or damage. A number of defaults which together re
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ult in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one default.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence, IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, even if \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
IBM was informed about the possibility of such loss or damage.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. In case of delay on IBM's part: 1) IBM will pay to Licensee an amount not exceeding the loss or damage caused by IBM's delay and 2) IBM will be liable only in respect of the resulting damag\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
es that Licensee suffers, subject to the provisions of Items a and b above.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the provisions of 10.f:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. Any claims resulting from this Agreement are subject to a limitation period of three years, except as stated in Sec\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tion 5 (No Warranties) of this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the provisions of 10.h:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except (to the e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
xtent permitted in Section 7 (Limitation of Liability)) for: i) bodily injury (including death); or ii) damage to real or tangible personal property for which (in either case) IBM is legally liable to that third party.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IRELAND
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. No Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The follo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 wing paragraph is added to the second paragraph of this Section 5 (No Warranties):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Except as expressly provided in these terms and conditions, or Section 12 of the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act, 1980 (th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e "1980 Act"), all conditions or warranties (express or implied, statutory or otherwise) are hereby excluded including, without limitation, any warranties implied by the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the 1980 Act (including, for the avoidance of do
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 u\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 bt, Section 39 of the 1980 Act).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IRELAND AND UNITED KINGDOM
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Agreement Structure
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following sentence is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Nothing in this paragraph shall have the effect of excluding or limiting liability for fraud.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the first paragraph of the Subsection:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For the purposes of this section, a "Default" means any act\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, statement, omission or negligence on the part of IBM in connection with, or in relation to, the subject matter of an Agreement in respect of which IBM is legally liable to Licensee, whether in contract or in tort. A number of Defaults which together res
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 u\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 lt in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one Default.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Circumstances may arise where, because of a Default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liability, Licensee is entitled t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
o recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM and except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, IBM's entire liability for any one Default will not exceed t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e amount of any direct damages, to the extent actually suffered by Licensee as an immediate and direct consequence of the Default, up to 500,000 euro (or the equivalent in local currency) for the Program that is the subject of the claim. Notwithstanding t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e foregoing, the amount of any damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable is not subject to such limitation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 eplaces Items 7.2b and 7.2c:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. special, incidental, exemplary, or indirect damages or consequential damages; or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. wasted management time or lost profits, business, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Z125-5543-05 (07/2011)
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 International Program License Agreement
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 1 - General Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERM\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
S ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS,
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM; AND
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * PROMPTLY\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 RETURN THE UNUSED MEDIA, DOCUMENTATION, AND PROOF OF ENTITLEMENT TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED FOR A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT PAID. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, DESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. Definitions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "Authorized Use" - the specified le\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
vel at which Licensee is authorized to execute or run the Program. That level may be measured by number of users, millions of service units ("MSUs"), Processor Value Units ("PVUs"), or other level of use specified by IBM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "IBM" - International Business Ma\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 chines Corporation or one of its subsidiaries.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "License Information" ("LI") - a document that provides information and any additional terms specific to a Program. The Program's LI is available at www.ibm.com/software/sla. The LI can also be found in the P
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 rogram's directory, by the use of a system command, or as a booklet included with the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "Program" - the following, including the original and all whole or partial copies: 1) machine-readable instructions and data, 2) components, files, and modules,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 3) audio-visual content (such as images, text, recordings, or pictures), and 4) related licensed materials (such as keys and documentation).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "Proof of Entitlement" ("PoE") - evidence of Licensee's Authorized Use. The PoE is also evidence of Licensee's el\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
igibility for warranty, future update prices, if any, and potential special or promotional opportunities. If IBM does not provide Licensee with a PoE, then IBM may accept as the PoE the original paid sales receipt or other sales record from the party (eit
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 er IBM or its reseller) from whom Licensee obtained the Program, provided that it specifies the Program name and Authorized Use obtained.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "Warranty Period" - one year, starting on the date the original Licensee is granted the license.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Agreement Struct\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ure
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
This Agreement includes Part 1 - General Terms, Part 2 - Country-unique Terms (if any), the LI, and the PoE and is the complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of the Program. It replaces any prior oral or written communications b
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 etween Licensee and IBM concerning Licensee's use of the Program. The terms of Part 2 may replace or modify those of Part 1. To the extent of any conflict, the LI prevails over both Parts.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3. License Grant
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program is owned by IBM or an IBM supplier, and is copyrighted and licensed, not sold.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM grants Licensee a nonexclusive license to 1) use the Program up to the Authorized Use specified in the PoE, 2) make and install copies to support such Authorize\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d Use, and 3) make a backup copy, all provided that
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Licensee has lawfully obtained the Program and complies with the terms of this Agreement;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. the backup copy does not execute unless the backed-up Program cannot execute;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee reproduces all \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 copyright notices and other legends of ownership on each copy, or partial copy, of the Program;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. Licensee ensures that anyone who uses the Program (accessed either locally or remotely) 1) does so only on Licensee's behalf and 2) complies with the terms \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 of this Agreement;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e. Licensee does not 1) use, copy, modify, or distribute the Program except as expressly permitted in this Agreement; 2) reverse assemble, reverse compile, otherwise translate, or reverse engineer the Program, except as expressly permit
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ted by law without the possibility of contractual waiver; 3) use any of the Program's components, files, modules, audio-visual content, or related licensed materials separately from that Program; or 4) sublicense, rent, or lease the Program; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. if Lic\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ensee obtains this Program as a Supporting Program, Licensee uses this Program only to support the Principal Program and subject to any limitations in the license to the Principal Program, or, if Licensee obtains this Program as a Principal Program, Licen
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ee uses all Supporting Programs only to support this Program, and subject to any limitations in this Agreement. For purposes of this Item "f," a "Supporting Program" is a Program that is part of another IBM Program ("Principal Program") and identified as 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 Supporting Program in the Principal Program's LI. (To obtain a separate license to a Supporting Program without these restrictions, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained the Supporting Program.)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This license applies to each copy o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f the Program that Licensee makes.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.1 Trade-ups, Updates, Fixes, and Patches
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.1.1 Trade-ups
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If the Program is replaced by a trade-up Program, the replaced Program's license is promptly terminated.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.1.2 Updates, Fixes, and Patches
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
When Licensee receives an update, fix, or patch to a Program, Licensee accepts any additional or different terms that are applicable to such update, fix, or patch that are specified in its LI. If no additional or different terms are provided, then the upd
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 te, fix, or patch is subject solely to this Agreement. If the Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.2 Fixed Term Licenses
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If IBM licenses the Program for a fixed term, Licensee's license \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 is terminated at the end of the fixed term, unless Licensee and IBM agree to renew it.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.3 Term and Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This Agreement is effective until terminated.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM may terminate Licensee's license if Licensee fails to comply with the terms of this Agreeme\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nt.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of and destroy all of Licensee's copies of the Program. Any terms of this Agreement that by their nature extend beyond termination of this Agreeme
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nt remain in effect until fulfilled, and apply to both parties' respective successors and assignees.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 4. Charges
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Charges are based on Authorized Use obtained, which is specified in the PoE. IBM does not give credits or refunds for charges already due or p\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
aid, except as specified elsewhere in this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee wishes to increase its Authorized Use, Licensee must notify IBM or an authorized IBM reseller in advance and pay any applicable charges.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. Taxes
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If any authority imposes on the Program a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 duty, tax, levy, or fee, excluding those based on IBM's net income, then Licensee agrees to pay that amount, as specified in an invoice, or supply exemption documentation. Licensee is responsible for any personal property taxes for the Program from the d
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
te that Licensee obtains it. If any authority imposes a customs duty, tax, levy, or fee for the import into or the export, transfer, access, or use of the Program outside the country in which the original Licensee was granted the license, then Licensee ag
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ees that it is responsible for, and will pay, any amount imposed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 6. Money-back Guarantee
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is dissatisfied with the Program for any reason and is the original Licensee, Licensee may terminate the license and obtain a refund of the amount Licen\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
see paid for the Program, provided that Licensee returns the Program and PoE to the party from whom Licensee obtained it within 30 days of the date the PoE was issued to Licensee. If the license is for a fixed term that is subject to renewal, then License
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 may obtain a refund only if the Program and its PoE are returned within the first 30 days of the initial term. If Licensee downloaded the Program, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained it for instructions on how to obtain the refu
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. Program Transfer
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Licensee may transfer the Program and all of Licensee's license rights and obligations to another party only if that party agrees to the terms of this Agreement. If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee is prohibited from tran
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ferring the Program to another party. Licensee may not transfer a portion of 1) the Program or 2) the Program's Authorized Use. When Licensee transfers the Program, Licensee must also transfer a hard copy of this Agreement, including the LI and PoE. Immed
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ately after the transfer, Licensee's license terminates.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8. Warranty and Exclusions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.1 Limited Warranty
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM warrants that the Program, when used in its specified operating environment, will conform to its specifications. The Program's specifications, a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nd specified operating environment information, can be found in documentation accompanying the Program (such as a read-me file) or other information published by IBM (such as an announcement letter). Licensee agrees that such documentation and other Progr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m content may be supplied only in the English language, unless otherwise required by local law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The warranty applies only to the unmodified portion of the Program. IBM does not warrant uninterrup\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ted or error-free operation of the Program, or that IBM will correct all Program defects. Licensee is responsible for the results obtained from the use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 During the Warranty Period, IBM provides Licensee with access to IBM databases containi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ng information on known Program defects, defect corrections, restrictions, and bypasses at no additional charge. Consult the IBM Software Support Handbook for further information at www.ibm.com/software/support.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If the Program does not function as warrant\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ed during the Warranty Period and the problem cannot be resolved with information available in the IBM databases, Licensee may return the Program and its PoE to the party (either IBM or its reseller) from whom Licensee obtained it and receive a refund of 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
he amount Licensee paid. After returning the Program, Licensee's license terminates. If Licensee downloaded the Program, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained it for instructions on how to obtain the refund.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.2 Exclusions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 THESE W\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ARRANTIES ARE LICENSEE'S EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES AND REPLACE ALL OTHER WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOS
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 E\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, TITLE, AND ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. IN THAT EVENT, SUCH WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 T\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
O THE WARRANTY PERIOD. NO WARRANTIES APPLY AFTER THAT PERIOD. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 THESE WARRANTIES GIVE LICENSEE SPECIFIC LEGAL RIG\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 HTS. LICENSEE MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM STATE TO STATE OR JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 THE WARRANTIES IN THIS SECTION 8 (WARRANTY AND EXCLUSIONS) ARE PROVIDED SOLELY BY IBM. THE DISCLAIMERS IN THIS SUBSECTION 8.2 (EXCLUSIONS), HOWEVER, AL\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
SO APPLY TO IBM'S SUPPLIERS OF THIRD PARTY CODE. THOSE SUPPLIERS PROVIDE SUCH CODE WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITION OF ANY KIND. THIS PARAGRAPH DOES NOT NULLIFY IBM'S WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 9. Licensee Data and Databases
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 To assist Lice\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nsee in isolating the cause of a problem with the Program, IBM may request that Licensee 1) allow IBM to remotely access Licensee's system or 2) send Licensee information or system data to IBM. However, IBM is not obligated to provide such assistance unle
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s IBM and Licensee enter a separate written agreement under which IBM agrees to provide to Licensee that type of support, which is beyond IBM's warranty obligations in this Agreement. In any event, IBM uses information about errors and problems to improve
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
its products and services, and assist with its provision of related support offerings. For these purposes, IBM may use IBM entities and subcontractors (including in one or more countries other than the one in which Licensee is located), and Licensee autho
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 izes IBM to do so.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Licensee remains responsible for 1) any data and the content of any database Licensee makes available to IBM, 2) the selection and implementation of procedures and controls regarding access, security, encryption, use, and transmission of data (including a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
y personally-identifiable data), and 3) backup and recovery of any database and any stored data. Licensee will not send or provide IBM access to any personally-identifiable information, whether in data or any other form, and will be responsible for reason
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ble costs and other amounts that IBM may incur relating to any such information mistakenly provided to IBM or the loss or disclosure of such information by IBM, including those arising out of any third party claims.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The limita\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tions and exclusions in this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) apply to the full extent they are not prohibited by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Circumstances may arise where, beca\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
use of a default on IBM's part or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other con
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ract or tort claim), IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate arising from or related to each Program or otherwise arising under this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to re
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
l property and tangible personal property and 2) other actual direct damages up to the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to twelve months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that is the subject of the claim.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This limit also \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 applies to any of IBM's Program developers and suppliers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its Program developers and suppliers are collectively responsible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM, ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 OR SUPPLIERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; OR
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 , GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11. Compliance Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For purposes of this Section 11 (Compliance Verification), "IPLA Program Terms" means 1) this Agreement and applicable amendments and transaction documents provided by IBM, and 2) IBM softwa\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
re policies that may be found at the IBM Software Policy website (www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies), including but not limited to those policies concerning backup, sub-capacity pricing, and migration.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The rights and obligations set forth in this Section 11 re\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 main in effect during the period the Program is licensed to Licensee, and for two years thereafter.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.1 Verification Process
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 License\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e agrees to create, retain, and provide to IBM and its auditors accurate written records, system tool outputs, and other system information sufficient to provide auditable verification that Licensee's use of all Programs is in compliance with the IPLA Pro
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ram Terms, including, without limitation, all of IBM's applicable licensing and pricing qualification terms. Licensee is responsible for 1) ensuring that it does not exceed its Authorized Use, and 2) remaining in compliance with IPLA Program Terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Upon r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
easonable notice, IBM may verify Licensee's compliance with IPLA Program Terms at all sites and for all environments in which Licensee uses (for any purpose) Programs subject to IPLA Program Terms. Such verification will be conducted in a manner that mini
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
izes disruption to Licensee's business, and may be conducted on Licensee's premises, during normal business hours. IBM may use an independent auditor to assist with such verification, provided IBM has a written confidentiality agreement in place with such
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 auditor.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 11.2 Resolution
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
IBM will notify Licensee in writing if any such verification indicates that Licensee has used any Program in excess of its Authorized Use or is otherwise not in compliance with the IPLA Program Terms. Licensee agrees to promptly 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
pay directly to IBM the charges that IBM specifies in an invoice for 1) any such excess use, 2) support for such excess use for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years, and 3) any additional charges and other liabilities determined as a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 result of such verification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 12. Third Party Notices
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program may include third party code that IBM, not the third party, licenses to Licensee under this Agreement. Notices, if any, for the third party code ("Third Party Notices") are included for Lic
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ensee's information only. These notices can be found in the Program's NOTICES file(s). Information on how to obtain source code for certain third party code can be found in the Third Party Notices. If in the Third Party Notices IBM identifies third party 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ode as "Modifiable Third Party Code," IBM authorizes Licensee to 1) modify the Modifiable Third Party Code and 2) reverse engineer the Program modules that directly interface with the Modifiable Third Party Code provided that it is only for the purpose of
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 debugging Licensee's modifications to such third party code. IBM's service and support obligations, if any, apply only to the unmodified Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 limited by contract.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
b. For Programs IBM provides to Licensee in tangible form, IBM fulfills its shipping and delivery obligations upon the delivery of such Programs to the IBM-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Licensee and IBM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement remain in full force and effect.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. Licensee agrees to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations, including \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
U.S. embargo and sanctions regulations and prohibitions on export for certain end uses or to certain users.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. Licensee authorizes International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries (and their successors and assigns, contractors and IBM Busi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ness Partners) to store and use Licensee's business contact information wherever they do business, in connection with IBM products and services, or in furtherance of IBM's business relationship with Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. Each party will allow the other reasonable \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
g. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation: 1) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, for any claim arising out of or related to this Agreement more than two years after
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 the cause of action arose; and 2) upon the expiration of such time limit, any such claim and all respective rights related to the claim lapse.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. Neither Licensee nor IBM is responsible for failure to fulfill any obligations due to causes beyond its contr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ol.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except as permitted in Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable) above for bodily injury (in
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 cluding death) or damage to real or tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 j. In entering into this Agreement, neither party is relying on any representation not specified in this Agreement, including but not limit\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ed to any representation concerning: 1) the performance or function of the Program, other than as expressly warranted in Section 8 (Warranty and Exclusions) above; 2) the experiences or recommendations of other parties; or 3) any results or savings that L
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 censee may achieve.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
k. IBM has signed agreements with certain organizations (called "IBM Business Partners") to promote, market, and support certain Programs. IBM Business Partners remain independent and separate from IBM. IBM is not responsible for the a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ctions or statements of IBM Business Partners or obligations they have to Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l. The license and intellectual property indemnification terms of Licensee's other agreements with IBM (such as the IBM Customer Agreement) do not apply to Program license\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s granted under this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 14. Geographic Scope and Governing Law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 14.1 Governing Law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license to govern, interpret, and enforce all of Licensee's\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 and IBM's respective rights, duties, and obligations arising from, or relating in any manner to, the subject matter of this Agreement, without regard to conflict of law principles.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Goods does not apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 14.2 Jurisdiction
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 2 - Country-unique Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For licenses granted in the countries specified below, th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e following terms replace or modify the referenced terms in Part 1. All terms in Part 1 that are not changed by these amendments remain unchanged and in effect. This Part 2 is organized as follows:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Multiple country ame\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ndments to Part 1, Section 14 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction);
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Americas country amendments to other Agreement terms;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Asia Pacific country amendments to other Agreement terms; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 * Europe, Middle East, and Africa country amendments to other Agreeme\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nt terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 14 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 14.1 Governing Law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The phrase "the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license" in the first paragraph of 14.1 Governing Law is replaced \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 by the following phrases in the countries below:

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AMERICAS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Canada: the laws in the Province of Ontario;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) in Mexico: the federal laws of the Republic of Mexico;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) in the United States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, British Virgin Islands,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: the laws of the State of New York, United States;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) in Venezuela: the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ASI\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 A PACIFIC
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) in Cambodia and Laos: the laws of the State of New York, United States;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (6) in Australia: the laws of the State or Territory in which the transaction is performed;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (7) in Hong Kong SAR and Macau SAR: the laws of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR");
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (8) in Taiwan: the laws of Taiwan;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRI\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 CA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(9) in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenist
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 an, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: the laws of Austria;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, Frenc
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
h Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the laws of France;

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (11)\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: the laws of Finland;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (12) in Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the laws of England; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (13) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the laws of the Republic of Sout\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h Africa.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 14.2 Jurisdiction
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following paragraph pertains to jurisdiction and replaces Subsection 14.2 (Jurisdiction) as it applies for those countries identified below:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
which Licensee obtained the Program license except that in the countries identified below all disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the foll
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 wing courts of competent jurisdiction:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AMERICAS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Argentina: the Ordinary Commercial Court of the city of Buenos Aires;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) in Brazil: the court of Rio de Janeiro, RJ;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) in Chile: the Civil Co\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 urts of Justice of Santiago;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) in Ecuador: the civil judges of Quito for executory or summary proceedings (as applicable);
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) in Mexico: the courts located in Mexico City, Federal District;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (6) in Peru: the judges and tribunals of the judicial distri\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ct of Lima, Cercado;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (7) in Uruguay: the courts of the city of Montevideo;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (8) in Venezuela: the courts of the metropolitan area of the city of Caracas;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (9) in Austria: the court of law in Vienna, Austria (Inner-City);
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea
-\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Monaco, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the Commercial Court of Paris;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (11) in Angola, Bahrain, Bot\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
swana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the Uni
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ed Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the English courts;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (12) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the High Court in Johannesburg;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (13) in Greece: the competent court of Athens;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (14) in Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv-Jaf\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 fa;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (15) in Italy: the courts of Milan;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (16) in Portugal: the courts of Lisbon;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (17) in Spain: the courts of Madrid; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (18) in Turkey: the Istanbul Central Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, the Republic of Turkey.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 14.3 Arbitration
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following paragraph is added as a new Subsection 14.3 (Arbitration) as it applies for those countries identified below. The p\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rovisions of this Subsection 14.3 prevail over those of Subsection 14.2 (Jurisdiction) to the extent permitted by the applicable governing law and rules of procedure:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ASIA PACIFIC
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Cambodia, India, Laos, Philippines, and Vietnam:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Disputes arising \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
out of or in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration which will be held in Singapore in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules") then in effect. The arbitration award 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ill be final and binding for the parties without appeal and will be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The number of arbitrators will be three, with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
The two arbitrators appointed by the parties will appoint a third arbitrator who will act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman will be filled by the president of the SIAC. Other vacancies will be filled by the respective nomin
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ting party. Proceedings will continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
will be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All proceedings will be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English language. The English language version of this Agreement\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 prevails over any other language version.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) In the People's Republic of China:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In case no settlement can be reached, the disputes will be submitted to China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission for arbitration according to the then \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
effective rules of the said Arbitration Commission. The arbitration will take place in Beijing and be conducted in Chinese. The arbitration award will be final and binding on both parties. During the course of arbitration, this agreement will continue to 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e performed except for the part which the parties are disputing and which is undergoing arbitration.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) In Indonesia:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
relating to this Agreement. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation, i) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, arising out of or related to this Agreement or any transac
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ion under it more than two years after the cause of action arose; and ii) after such time limit, any legal action arising out of this Agreement or any transaction under it and all respective rights related to any such action lapse.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Disputes arising out of\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 or in connection with this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration that shall be held in Jakarta, Indonesia in accordance with the rules of Board of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration (Badan Arbitrase Nasional Indonesia or "BANI") the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  in effect. The arbitration award shall be final and binding for the parties without appeal and shall be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The number of arbitrators shall be three, with each side to the dispute bein\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
g entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties shall appoint a third arbitrator who shall act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman shall be filled by the chairman of the BANI. Other vacancie
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  shall be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party app\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
oints its, the first appointed arbitrator shall be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All proceedings shall be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English and/or Indon\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 esian language.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Ru
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ssia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All disputes arising out of this Agreement or related to its violation, termination or nullity will be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration and Conciliation of the Intern\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ational Arbitral Center of the Federal Economic Chamber in Vienna (Vienna Rules) by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with these rules. The arbitration will be held in Vienna, Austria, and the official language of the proceedings will be English. 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 T\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
he decision of the arbitrators will be final and binding upon both parties. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph 598 (2) of the Austrian Code of Civil Procedure, the parties expressly waive the application of paragraph 595 (1) figure 7 of the Code. IBM may, h
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 wever, institute proceedings in a competent court in the country of installation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All disputes arising in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled in arbitration that will be held in Helsinki, Finland \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
in accordance with the arbitration laws of Finland then in effect. Each party will appoint one arbitrator. The arbitrators will then jointly appoint the chairman. If arbitrators cannot agree on the chairman, then the Central Chamber of Commerce in Helsink
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  will appoint the chairman.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AMERICAS COUNTRY AMENDMENTS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 CANADA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 1 in the first paragraph of this Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May be Liable):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and physical harm to real property and tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence; \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 13.d:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. Licensee agrees to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations, including those of that apply to goods of United States origin and that prohibit or limit export for certain uses 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 or to certain users.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 13.i:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement or any transaction under it, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee except as permitted by 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 the Limitation of Liability section above for bodily injury (including death) or physical harm to real or tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added as Item 13.m:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m. F\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
or purposes of this Item 13.m, "Personal Data" refers to information relating to an identified or identifiable individual made available by one of the parties, its personnel or any other individual to the other in connection with this Agreement. The follo
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ing provisions apply in the event that one party makes Personal Data available to the other:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Each party is responsible for complying with any obligations applying to it under applicable Canadian data privacy laws and regulations ("Laws").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(b) Neither party will request Personal Data beyond what is necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it is requested. The purpose(s) for requesting Personal Data must be reasonable. Each party will agree in advance as to the type of Personal Data th
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 at is required to be made available.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) Security Safeguards
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Each party acknowledges that it is solely responsible for determining and communicating to the other the appropriate technological, physical and organizational security measures required to\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 protect Personal Data.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Each party will ensure that Personal Dat\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a is protected in accordance with the security safeguards communicated and agreed to by the other.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (c) Each party will ensure that any third party to whom Personal Data is transferred is bound by the applicable terms of this section.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (d) Additional or di\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 fferent services required to comply with the Laws will be deemed a request for new services.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) Use
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Each party agrees that Personal Data will only be used, accessed, managed, transferred, disclosed to third parties or otherwise processed to fulfill the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
purpose(s) for which it was made available.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) Access Requests
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) Each party agrees to reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with requests to access or amend Personal Data.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Each party agrees to reimburse the other for any reasonable ch\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 arges incurred in providing each other assistance.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (c) Each party agrees to amend Personal Data only upon receiving instructions to do so from the other party or its personnel.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) Retention
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Each party will promptly return to the other or destroy all Pe\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rsonal Data that is no longer necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available, unless otherwise instructed by the other or its personnel or required by law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (6) Public Bodies Who Are Subject to Public Sector Privacy Legislation
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For Li\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
censees who are public bodies subject to public sector privacy legislation, this Item 13.m applies only to Personal Data made available to Licensee in connection with this Agreement, and the obligations in this section apply only to Licensee, except that:
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1) section (2)(a) applies only to IBM; 2) sections (1)(a) and (4)(a) apply to both parties; and 3) section (4)(b) and the last sentence in (1)(b) do not apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 PERU
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the end of this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, Licensee and IBM intend that the limitation of liability in this Limitation of Liability sec\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
tion applies to damages caused by all types of claims and causes of action. If any limitation on or exclusion from liability in this section is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable with respect to a particular claim or cause of ac
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ion, the parties intend that it nonetheless apply to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law to all other claims and causes of action.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added at the end of this Subsection 10.1:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In accordance\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code, the limitations and exclusions specified in this section will not apply to damages caused by IBM's willful misconduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. Taxes
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e following is added at the end of this Section 5 (Taxes)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For Programs delivered electronically in the United States for which Licensee claims a state sales and use tax exemption, Licensee agrees not to receive any tangible personal property (e.g., media 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 and publications) associated with the electronic program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee agrees to be responsible for any sales and use tax liabilities that may arise as a result of Licensee's subsequent redistribution of Programs after delivery by IBM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The follo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 wing is added to Section 13 as Item 13.m:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights - Use, duplication or disclosure is restricted by the GSA IT Schedule 70 Contract with the IBM Corporation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Item 13.f:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Each party waives any right to a jury trial in any proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ASIA PACIFIC COUNTRY AMENDMENTS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AUSTRALIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. Taxes
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following sentences replace the first two sentences \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 of Section 5 (Taxes):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
If any government or authority imposes a duty, tax (other than income tax), levy, or fee, on this Agreement or on the Program itself, that is not otherwise provided for in the amount payable, Licensee agrees to pay it when IBM invoic
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 es Licensee. If the rate of GST changes, IBM may adjust the charge or other amount payable to take into account that change from the date the change becomes effective.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.1 Limited Warranty
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Subsection 8.1 (Limited Warranty):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 warranties specified this Section are in addition to any rights Licensee may have under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 or other legislation and are only limited to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May be\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May be Liable):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Where IBM is in breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Competition and Consumer Act 2010, IBM's liability is limited to the repair or replacement of the good\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s, or the supply of equivalent goods. Where that condition or warranty relates to right to sell, quiet possession or clear title, or the goods are of a kind ordinarily obtained for personal, domestic or household use or consumption, then none of the limit
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tions in this paragraph apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 HONG KONG SAR, MACAU SAR, AND TAIWAN
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
As applies to licenses obtained in Taiwan and the special administrative regions, phrases throughout this Agreement containing the word "country" (for example, "the country in which the original Licensee was granted the license" and "the country in which 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 L\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 icensee obtained the Program license") are replaced with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) In Hong Kong SAR: "Hong Kong SAR"
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) In Macau SAR: "Macau SAR" except in the Governing Law clause (Section 14.1)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) In Taiwan: "Taiwan."
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 INDIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Items 1 and 2 of the first paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1) liability for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real property and tangible personal property will be limited to that caused by IBM's negligence; and 2) as to\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 any other actual damage arising in any situation involving nonperformance by IBM pursuant to, or in any way related to the subject of this Agreement, IBM's liability will be limited to the charge paid by Licensee for the individual Program that is the su
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ject of the claim.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Item 13.g:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If no suit or other legal action is brought, within three years after the cause of action arose, in respect of any claim that either party may have against the other, the righ\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ts of the concerned party in respect of such claim will be forfeited and the other party will stand released from its obligations in respect of such claim.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 INDONESIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.3 Term and Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to the last paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Both parties waive the provision of article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code, to the extent the article provision requires such court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual obligations.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 JAPAN
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is inserted af\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ter Item 13.f:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Any doubts concerning this Agreement will be initially resolved between us in good faith and in accordance with the principle of mutual trust.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 MALAYSIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.2 Items for Which IBM Is not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The word "SPECIAL" in Item 10.2b is deleted.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 NEW ZEALAND
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.1 Limited Warranty
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The warranties specified in this Section are in addition to any rights Licensee may have under the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 or other legislation which cannot be excluded or limited. The Consum
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 er Guarantees Act 1993 will not apply in respect of any goods which IBM provides, if Licensee requires the goods for the purposes of a business as defined in that Act.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Where Programs are not obtained for the purposes of a business as defined in the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993, the limitations in this Section are subject to the limitations in that Act.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 4. Charges
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 All\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  banking charges incurred in the People's Republic of China will be borne by Licensee and those incurred outside the People's Republic of China will be borne by IBM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 PHILIPPINES
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.2 Items for Which IBM Is not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Item 10.2b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. special (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral, incidental, or indirect damages or for any economic consequential damages; or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 SINGAPORE
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.2 Items for Which IBM Is not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The words "SPECIAL" and "ECONOMIC" are deleted from \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Item 10.2b.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Item 13.i:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Subject to the rights provided to IBM's suppliers and Program developers as provided in Section 10 above (Limitation of Liability), a person who is not a party to this Agreement will have no right under the Contracts (Right of Third Parties) Act to enforc
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  any of its terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 TAIWAN
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.1 Limited Warranty
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The last paragraph is deleted.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following sentences are deleted:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This limit also applies to any of IBM's subcontractors and Program developers. It is the maximum\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  for which IBM and its subcontractors and Program developers are collectively responsible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA (EMEA) COUNTRY AMENDMENTS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8. Warranty and Exclusions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added to Section 8 (Warranty and E\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 xclusion):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In the European Union ("EU"), consumers have legal rights under applicable national legislation governing the sale of consumer goods. Such rights are not affected by the provisions set out in this Section 8 (Warranty and Exclusions). The territ
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 orial scope of the Limited Warranty is worldwide.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 EU MEMBER STATES AND THE COUNTRIES IDENTIFIED BELOW
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, and any other European country that has enacted local data privacy or protection legislation simila\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r to the EU model.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 13.e:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) Definitions - For the purposes of this Item 13.e, the following additional definitions apply:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(a) Business Contact Information - business-related contact information disclosed by Licensee to IBM, including names, job titles, business addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of Licensee's employees and contractors. For Austria, Italy and Sw
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tzerland, Business Contact Information also includes information about Licensee and its contractors as legal entities (for example, Licensee's revenue data and other transactional information)

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) Business Contact Personnel - Licensee employees and contra\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ctors to whom the Business Contact Information relates.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (c) Data Protection Authority - the authority established by the Data Protection and Electronic Communications Legislation in the applicable country or, for non-EU countries, the authority responsibl
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e for supervising the protection of personal data in that country, or (for any of the foregoing) any duly appointed successor entity thereto.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (d) Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation - (i) the applicable local legislation and regulation\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s in force implementing the requirements of EU Directive 95/46/EC (on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data) and of EU Directive 2002/58/EC (concerning the processing of personal
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector); or (ii) for non-EU countries, the legislation and/or regulations passed in the applicable country relating to the protection of personal data and the regulation of electronic com
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 unications involving personal data, including (for any of the foregoing) any statutory replacement or modification thereof.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (e) IBM Group - International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk, New York, USA, its subsidiaries, and their respective Busine\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ss Partners and subcontractors.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) Licensee authorizes IBM:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (a) to process and use Business Contact Information within IBM Group in support of Licensee including the provision of support services, and for the purpose of furthering the business relations\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
hip between Licensee and IBM Group, including, without limitation, contacting Business Contact Personnel (by email or otherwise) and marketing IBM Group products and services (the "Specified Purpose"); and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (b) to disclose Business Contact Information to o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ther members of IBM Group in pursuit of the Specified Purpose only.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) IBM agrees that all Business Contact Information will be processed in accordance with the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation and will be used only for the Specifi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ed Purpose.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
(4) To the extent required by the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation, Licensee represents that (a) it has obtained (or will obtain) any consents from (and has issued (or will issue) any notices to) the Business Contact Per
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 sonnel as are necessary in order to enable IBM Group to process and use the Business Contact Information for the Specified Purpose.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (5) Licensee authorizes IBM to transfer Business Contact Information outside the European Economic Area, provided that the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
transfer is made on contractual terms approved by the Data Protection Authority or the transfer is otherwise permitted under the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 AUSTRIA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.2 Exclusions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is deleted from the first paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following limitations and exclusions of IBM's liability do not apply for damages caused by gross negligence\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  or willful misconduct.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the first sentence in the first paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Circumstances may arise where, because of a default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or oth\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 er liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In the second sentence of the first paragraph, delete entirely the parenthetical phrase:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 "(including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim)".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 .2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Item 10.2b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. indirect damages or consequential damages; or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 BELGIUM, FRANCE, ITALY, AND LUXEMBOURG
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the terms of Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) in its entirety:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Except as otherwise provided by mandatory law:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate for any damages and lo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
sses that may arise as a consequence of the fulfillment of its obligations under or in connection with this Agreement or due to any other cause related to this Agreement is limited to the compensation of only those damages and losses proved and actually a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ising as an immediate and direct consequence of the non-fulfillment of such obligations (if IBM is at fault) or of such cause, for a maximum amount equal to the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to twelve months' charges) Licens
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e paid for the Program that has caused the damages.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The above limitation will not apply to damages for bodily injuries (including death) and damages to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.2 Items for Which IBM\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM OR ANY OF ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY: 1) LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA; 2) INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQU
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ENTIAL DAMAGES; AND / OR 3) LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, EVEN IF THEY ARISE AS AN IMMEDIATE CONSEQUENCE OF THE EVENT THAT GENERATED THE DAMAGES.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.3 Suppliers and Program Developers
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The limitation and exclusion of l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
iability herein agreed applies not only to the activities performed by IBM but also to the activities performed by its suppliers and Program developers, and represents the maximum amount for which IBM as well as its suppliers and Program developers are co
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 lectively responsible.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 GERMANY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.1 Limited Warranty
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following is inserted at the beginning of Section 8.1:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Warranty Period is twelve months from the date of delivery of the Program to the original Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.2 Exclusions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 8.2 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 8.1 defines IBM's entire warranty obligations to Licen\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 see except as otherwise required by applicable statutory law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10. Limitation of Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the Limitation of Liability section in its entirety:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM will be liable without limit for 1) loss or damage caused by a breach of an expr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ess guarantee; 2) damages or losses resulting in bodily injury (including death); and 3) damages caused intentionally or by gross negligence.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence or in breach of essential\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 contractual obligations, IBM will be liable, regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), per claim only up to the greater 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
f 500,000 euro or the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to 12 months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that caused the loss or damage. A number of defaults which together result in, or contribute to, substantially the same
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 loss or damage will be treated as one default.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence, IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, even if IBM was informed about the possibility of such lo
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ss or damage.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d. In case of delay on IBM's part: 1) IBM will pay to Licensee an amount not exceeding the loss or damage caused by IBM's delay and 2) IBM will be liable only in respect of the resulting damages that Licensee suffers, subject to the provisio
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ns of Items a and b above.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 13. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the provisions of 13.g:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Any claims resulting from this Agreement are subject to a limitation period of three years, except as stated in Section 8.1 (Limited Warranty) of this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the provisions of 13.i:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except (to the extent permitted in Section 10 (Limitation of L
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 iability)) for: i) bodily injury (including death); or ii) damage to real or tangible personal property for which (in either case) IBM is legally liable to that third party.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IRELAND
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 8.2 Exclusions
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following paragraph is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Except as expressly p\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rovided in these terms and conditions, or Section 12 of the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act, 1980 (the "1980 Act"), all conditions or warranties (express or implied, statutory or otherwise) are hereby excl
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 u\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ded including, without limitation, any warranties implied by the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the 1980 Act (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Section 39 of the 1980 Act).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IRELAND AND UNITED KINGDOM
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Agreement Structure
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following sente\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nce is added:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Nothing in this paragraph shall have the effect of excluding or limiting liability for fraud.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces the first paragraph of the Subsection:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For the purposes of this section, a "Defaul\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
t" means any act, statement, omission or negligence on the part of IBM in connection with, or in relation to, the subject matter of an Agreement in respect of which IBM is legally liable to Licensee, whether in contract or in tort. A number of Defaults wh
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ch together result in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one Default.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Circumstances may arise where, because of a Default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liability, Licens\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM and except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, IBM's entire liability for any one Default w
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ll not exceed the amount of any direct damages, to the extent actually suffered by Licensee as an immediate and direct consequence of the default, up to the greater of (1) 500,000 euro (or the equivalent in local currency) or (2) 125% of the charges (if t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to 12 months' charges) for the Program that is the subject of the claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of any damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible p
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 rsonal property for which IBM is legally liable is not subject to such limitation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 10.2 Items for Which IBM is Not Liable
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following replaces Items 10.2b and 10.2c:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. special, incidental, exemplary, or indirect damages or consequential damages; or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. wasted management time or lost profits, business, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Z125-3301-14 (07/2011)
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb4ec3301045f748fc83e52d4a
9cb2400825e982c78ec7a27cc0c8992416c9d8b2a755fbf74cd25442a820166c2cd933f79e3be372bd1f07b5c3989ca74aaff2422b24eb1b475da5df374fd9ad
5689811a183c61a50f98f4babebc2837878049899a52a57be670674cb23d8e90721f90a4d2fa3802cb35762680fd800ecd7551dc18eb899138e3c943d7e503b6
b01d583deee5f99824e290b4ba3f364eac4a430883b3c092d4eca8f946c916422ecab927f52ea42b89a1cd59c254f919b0e85e6535d135a8de20f20b8c12c3b0
0c895fcf6720192de6bf3b9e89ecdbd6596cbcdd8eb28e7c365ecc4ec1ff1460f53fe813d3cc7f5b7f020000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6
a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4f
c7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b6309512
0f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462
a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f746865
6d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b
4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b
4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100b6f4679893070000c9200000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f
7468656d65312e786d6cec59cd8b1bc915bf07f23f347d97f5d5ad8fc1f2a24fcfda33b6b164873dd648a5eef2547789aad28cc56208de532e81c026e49085bd
ed21842cecc22eb9e48f31d8249b3f22afaa5bdd5552c99e191c3061463074977eefd5afde7bf5de53d5ddcf5e26d4bbc05c1096f6fcfa9d9aefe174ce16248d
7afeb3d9a4d2f13d2151ba4094a5b8e76fb0f03fbbf7eb5fdd454732c609f6403e1547a8e7c752ae8eaa5531876124eeb0154ee1bb25e30992f0caa3ea82a34b
d09bd06aa3566b55134452df4b51026a1f2f97648ebd9952e9dfdb2a1f53784da5500373caa74a35b6243476715e5708b11143cabd0b447b3eccb3609733fc52
fa1e4542c2173dbfa6fffceabdbb5574940b517940d6909be8bf5c2e17589c37f49c3c3a2b260d823068f50bfd1a40e53e6edc1eb7c6ad429f06a0f91c569a71
b175b61bc320c71aa0ecd1a17bd41e35eb16ded0dfdce3dc0fd5c7c26b50a63fd8c34f2643b0a285d7a00c1feee1c3417730b2f56b50866fede1dbb5fe28685b
fa3528a6243ddf43d7c25673b85d6d0159327aec8477c360d26ee4ca4b144443115d6a8a254be5a1584bd00bc6270050408a24493db959e1259a43140f112567
9c7827248a21f056286502866b8ddaa4d684ffea13e827ed5174849121ad780113b137a4f87862cec94af6fc07a0d537206f7ffef9cdeb1fdfbcfee9cd575fbd
79fdf77c6eadca923b466964cafdf2dd1ffef3cd6fbd7ffff0ed2f5fff319b7a172f4cfcbbbffdeedd3ffef93ef5b0e2d2146ffff4fdbb1fbf7ffbe7dfffebaf
5f3bb4f7393a33e1339260e13dc297de5396c0021dfcf119bf9ec42c46c494e8a791402952b338f48f656ca11f6d10450edc00db767cce21d5b880f7d72f2cc2
d398af2571687c182716f094313a60dc6985876a2ec3ccb3751ab927e76b13f714a10bd7dc43945a5e1eaf579063894be530c616cd2714a5124538c5d253dfb1
738c1dabfb8210cbaea764ce99604be97d41bc01224e93ccc899154da5d03149c02f1b1741f0b7659bd3e7de8051d7aa47f8c246c2de40d4417e86a965c6fb68
2d51e252394309350d7e8264ec2239ddf0b9891b0b099e8e3065de78818570c93ce6b05ec3e90f21cdb8dd7e4a37898de4929cbb749e20c64ce4889d0f6394ac
5cd829496313fbb938871045de13265df05366ef10f50e7e40e941773f27d872f787b3c133c8b026a53240d4376beef0e57dccacf89d6ee8126157aae9f3c44a
b17d4e9cd131584756689f604cd1255a60ec3dfbdcc160c05696cd4bd20f62c82ac7d815580f901dabea3dc5027a25d5dcece7c91322ac909de2881de073bad9
493c1b9426881fd2fc08bc6eda7c0ca52e7105c0633a3f37818f08f480102f4ea33c16a0c308ee835a9fc4c82a60ea5db8e375c32dff5d658fc1be7c61d1b8c2
be04197c6d1948eca6cc7b6d3343d49aa00c9819822ec3956e41c4727f29a28aab165b3be596f6a62ddd00dd91d5f42424fd6007b4d3fb84ffbbde073a8cb77f
f9c6b10f3e4ebfe3566c25ab6b763a8792c9f14e7f7308b7dbd50c195f904fbfa919a175fa04431dd9cf58b73dcd6d4fe3ffdff73487f6f36d2773a8dfb8ed64
7ce8306e3b99fc70e5e3743265f3027d8d3af0c80e7af4b14f72f0d46749289dca0dc527421ffc08f83db398c0a092d3279eb838055cc5f0a8ca1c4c60e1228e
b48cc799fc0d91f134462b381daafb4a492472d591f0564cc0a1911e76ea5678ba4e4ed9223becacd7d5c16656590592e5782d2cc6e1a04a66e856bb3cc02bd4
6bb6913e68dd1250b2d721614c6693683a48b4b783ca48fa58178ce620a157f65158741d2c3a4afdd6557b2c805ae115f8c1edc1cff49e1f06200242701e07cd
f942f92973f5d6bbda991fd3d3878c69450034d8db08283ddd555c0f2e4fad2e0bb52b78da2261849b4d425b46377822869fc17974aad1abd0b8aeafbba54b2d
7aca147a3e08ad9246bbf33e1637f535c8ede6069a9a9982a6de65cf6f35430899395af5fc251c1ac363b282d811ea3717a211dcbccc25cf36fc4d32cb8a0b39
4222ce0cae934e960d122231f728497abe5a7ee1069aea1ca2b9d51b90103e59725d482b9f1a3970baed64bc5ce2b934dd6e8c284b67af90e1b35ce1fc568bdf
1cac24d91adc3d8d1797de195df3a708422c6cd795011744c0dd413db3e682c0655891c8caf8db294c79da356fa3740c65e388ae62945714339967709dca0b3a
faadb081f196af190c6a98242f8467912ab0a651ad6a5a548d8cc3c1aafb6121653923699635d3ca2aaa6abab39835c3b60cecd8f26645de60b53531e434b3c2
67a97b37e576b7b96ea74f28aa0418bcb09fa3ea5ea12018d4cac92c6a8af17e1a56393b1fb56bc776811fa07695226164fdd656ed8edd8a1ae19c0e066f54f9
416e376a6168b9ed2bb5a5f5adb979b1cdce5e40f2184197bba6526857c2c92e47d0104d754f92a50dd8222f65be35e0c95b73d2f3bfac85fd60d80887955a27
1c57826650ab74c27eb3d20fc3667d1cd66ba341e31514161927f530bbb19fc00506dde4f7f67a7cefee3ed9ded1dc99b3a4caf4dd7c5513d777f7f5c6e1bb7b
8f40d2f9b2d598749bdd41abd26df627956034e854bac3d6a0326a0ddba3c9681876ba9357be77a1c141bf390c5ae34ea5551f0e2b41aba6e877ba9576d068f4
8376bf330efaaff23606569ea58fdc16605ecdebde7f010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d65
2f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d36
3f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e
3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d985
0528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000000000000000000000
0000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b00000000000000000000
000000300100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000000000000000000000000019020000
7468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100b6f4679893070000c92000001600000000000000
000000000000d60200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b01000027000000
000000000000000000009d0a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000980b00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax376\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef0\lsdunhideuseddef0\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 5;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 9;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 header;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footer;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of figures;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope return;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation reference;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 line number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 page number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote text;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of authorities;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 macro;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 toa heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Closing;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Signature;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Message Header;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Salutation;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Date;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Note Heading;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Block Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 FollowedHyperlink;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Document Map;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Plain Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 E-mail Signature;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Top of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Bottom of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal (Web);\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Acronym;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Cite;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Code;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Definition;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Keyboard;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Preformatted;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Sample;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Typewriter;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Variable;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation subject;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 No List;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Balloon Text;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;
\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;
\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Revision;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;\lsdpriority41 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 1;\lsdpriority42 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 2;\lsdpriority43 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 3;\lsdpriority44 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 4;
\lsdpriority45 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 5;\lsdpriority40 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table Light;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 2;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 3;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 3;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 4;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 4;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 6;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 3;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 3;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 3;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 4;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 4;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Mention;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hashtag;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Unresolved Mention;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Link;}}{\*\datastore 01050000
02000000180000004d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e362e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffff0c6ad98892f1d411a65f0040963251e5000000000000000000000000206d
85aeb163d701feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}