{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff31507\deff0\stshfdbch31505\stshfloch31506\stshfhich31506\stshfbi31507\deflang1033\deflangfe1033\themelang1033\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f34\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria Math;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0302020204030204}Calibri Light;}
{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}
{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f44\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f46\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f48\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f49\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f50\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f51\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f53\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f54\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f56\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f57\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f58\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f59\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}
{\f60\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f61\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\flomajor\f31508\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\fdbmajor\f31518\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhimajor\f31528\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri Light CE;}
{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Light Cyr;}{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Light Greek;}{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Light Tur;}
{\fhimajor\f31533\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri Light (Hebrew);}{\fhimajor\f31534\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri Light (Arabic);}{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Light Baltic;}
{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri Light (Vietnamese);}{\fbimajor\f31538\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\flominor\f31548\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbminor\f31558\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhiminor\f31568\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}
{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\fhiminor\f31573\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}
{\fhiminor\f31574\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}
{\fbiminor\f31578\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}{\*\defchp \fs22\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505 }{\*\defpap \ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }
\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \sunhideused \spriority1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1
\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused 
Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4853835\rsid9334002\rsid9660458}{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\operator Prabhudas Pillai}
{\creatim\yr2023\mo1\dy17\hr16\min17}{\revtim\yr2023\mo1\dy17\hr16\min17}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages31}{\nofwords14547}{\nofchars82919}{\nofcharsws97272}{\vern63}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale150\rsidroot9334002 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4853835 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IMPORTANT: READ CAREFULLY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Two license agreements are presented below.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. IBM International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. IBM International Program License Agreement
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
If Licensee is obtaining the Program for purposes of productive use (other than evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration): By clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts the IBM International Program License Agreement, without
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
If Licensee is obtaining the Program for the purpose of evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration (collectively, an "Evaluation"): By clicking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts both (i) the IBM International Lice
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nse Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (the "Evaluation License"), without modification; and (ii) the IBM International Program License Agreement (the "IPLA"), without modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License will apply during the term of Licensee's Evaluat\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ion.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
The IPLA will automatically apply if Licensee elects to retain the Program after the Evaluation (or obtain additional copies of the Program for use after the Evaluation) by entering into a procurement agreement (e.g., the IBM International Passport A
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 dvantage or the IBM Passport Advantage Express agreements).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License and the IPLA are not in effect concurrently; neither modifies the other; and each is independent of the other.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The complete text of each of these two license agreements fo\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 llow.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 LICENSE INFORMATION
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
The Programs listed below are licensed under the following License Information terms and conditions in addition to the Program license terms previously agreed to by Client and IBM. If Client does not have previously agreed to 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 license terms in effect for the Program, the International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (i125-5543-06) applies.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Program Name (Program Number):
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM FileNet Content Manager Connector for Salesforce 5.6.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9334002 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 6}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4853835 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  (Evaluation)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following standard \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Evaluation Period
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The evaluation period begins on the date that Licensee agrees to the terms of this Agreement and ends after 30 days.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Source Components and Sample Materials
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program includes components in source code form ("Source Components"), or other materials iden\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
tified as Sample Materials or both. Licensee may copy and modify Source Components and Sample Materials for internal use only within the limits of the license rights under this Agreement; provided, however, that Licensee may not alter or delete any copyri
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ht information or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample Materials. IBM provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and "AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WAR
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 R\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 LICENSE INFORMATION
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Programs listed below are licensed under the following License Information te\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rms and conditions in addition to the Program license terms previously agreed to by Client and IBM. If Client does not have previously agreed to license terms in effect for the Program, the International Program License Agreement (i125-3301-15) applies.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 P\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 rogram Name (Program Number):
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IBM FileNet Content Manager Connector for Salesforce 5.6.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid9660458 \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 6}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4853835 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  (5724-R81)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following standard terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Source Components and Sample Materials
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Program includes components in source cod\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e form ("Source Components"), or other materials identified as Sample Materials or both. Licensee may copy and modify Source Components and Sample Materials for internal use only within the limits of the license rights under this Agreement; provided, howe
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 v\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
er, that Licensee may not alter or delete any copyright information or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample Materials. IBM provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and "AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF A
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 N\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Y KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The following units of measure may apply to License\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Authorized User
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Authorized User is a unit of measure by which the Program can be licensed. An Authorized User is a unique person who is given access to the Program. The Program may be installed on any number of computers or servers and each Authorized User may have simul
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
aneous access to any number of instances of the Program at one time. Licensee must obtain separate, dedicated entitlements for each Authorized User given access to the Program in any manner directly or indirectly (for example: via a multiplexing program, 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
evice, or application server) through any means. An entitlement for an Authorized User is unique to that Authorized User and may not be shared, nor may it be reassigned other than for the permanent transfer of the Authorized User entitlement to another pe
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 son.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In addition to the above, the following terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Salesforce Information
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Licensee agrees IBM may disclose Licensee's Salesforce information regarding the number of Salesforce organizations Licensee has with Sales\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
force (including Salesforce organization IDs) and number of users to Salesforce, if requested.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 L/N:  L-LSWS-CJWN49
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 D/N:  L-LSWS-CJWN49
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 P/N:  L-LSWS-CJWN49
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IMPORTANT: READ CAREFULLY
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Two license agreements are presented below.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. IBM International Licen\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 se Agreement for Evaluation of Programs
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. IBM International Program License Agreement
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is obtaining the Program for purposes of productive use (other than evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration): By clicking on the "Accept" \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
button below, Licensee accepts the IBM International Program License Agreement, without modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 If Licensee is obtaining the Program for the purpose of evaluation, testing, trial "try or buy," or demonstration (collectively, an "Evaluation"): By cli\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
cking on the "Accept" button below, Licensee accepts both (i) the IBM International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (the "Evaluation License"), without modification; and (ii) the IBM International Program License Agreement (the "IPLA"), witho
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 u\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t modification.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License will apply during the term of Licensee's Evaluation.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The IPLA will automatically apply if Licensee elects to retain the Program after the Evaluation (or obtain additional copies of the Program for use after the Eval\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
uation) by entering into a procurement agreement (e.g., the IBM International Passport Advantage or the IBM Passport Advantage Express agreements).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The Evaluation License and the IPLA are not in effect concurrently; neither modifies the other; and each is independent of the other.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 The complete text of each of these two license agreements follow.
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 International License Agreement for Evaluation of Pro\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 grams
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 1 - General Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRE
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 SENT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS OR DO NOT HAVE AUTHORITY: i) DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM; AND ii) PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
MEDIA, DOCUMENTATION, AND PROOF OF ENTITLEMENT TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED FOR A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT PAID. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, DESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This International License Agreement for Evaluation of Programs (ILAE)\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 and applicable Transaction Documents (together the "Agreement") are the complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of a Program. The country required terms included in Part 2 of this ILAE replace or modify the terms of Part 1.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Transact\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ion Documents (TDs) provide a description, information, and terms regarding the Program and its authorized use. Examples of TDs for Programs include license information (LI), licensed program specifications (LPS), quote, proof of entitlement (PoE), or inv
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ice. To the extent of any conflict a TD will prevail over the ILAE.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. Program License
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. A Program is an executable IBM-branded computer program and its related material and includes whole and partial copies. Program details are described in a TD availa\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ble at http://www.ibm.com/software/sla (for Passport Advantage Programs) or http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter (for other IBM Programs), in the Program's system command directory, or as otherwise specified by IBM. IBM software policies (such as ba
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 kup, temporary use and IBM approved cloud environment) available at http://www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies apply to Licensee's use of Programs.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. Copies of Programs are copyrighted and licensed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee is granted a nonexclusive limited license to:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
) use each copy of a Program solely for internal evaluation, testing, or demonstration purposes on a trial basis during the Evaluation Period (as defined in the applicable Program TD) ("Authorized Use");
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) make and install copies to support such Authori\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 zed Use; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) make a backup copy.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d. Programs may be used by Licensee, its employees and contractors. Licensee may not use the Program for productive purposes, rent or lease a Program, or provide commercial IT, hosting or timesharing services to any third party. Additional rights may be a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 v\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ailable for additional fees or under different terms.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. The license granted for a Program is subject to Licensee:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) reproducing copyright notices and other markings on any copy;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) ensuring anyone who uses the Program: i) does so only on Licensee's \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 behalf within Licensee's Authorized Use; and ii) complies with this Agreement;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) not disabling any disabling device, reverse assembling, reverse compiling, translating, or reverse engineering the Program, except as expressly permitted by law without the\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 possibility of contractual waiver; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) not using any of the elements of the Program or related licensed materials separately from the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. If the TD for a Program ("Principal Program") states that a "Supporting Program" is included with the P\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rincipal Program, Licensee may use the Supporting Program subject to any license limitations of the Principal Program and only to support the Principal Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g. This license applies to each copy of the Program that Licensee makes.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. An update, fix, o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
r patch to a Program is subject to the terms governing the Program unless new terms are provided in an updated TD. Licensee accepts such new terms upon installation of the update, fix, or patch. If a Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to pr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 mptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Subject to applicable laws, Programs are provided as-is, with no warranties of any kind, including: i) no warranty for uninterrupted or error-free operation of the Program; or ii) no other w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
arranties such as implied warranties or conditions of satisfactory quality, merchantability, non-infringement, and fitness for a particular purpose.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. IBM does not provide any support, unless otherwise specified in a TD.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3. Charges, Taxes, Payment, and \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
a. There are no charges for use of a Program during the Evaluation Period, unless specified otherwise by IBM. If any authority imposes a custom, duty, tax (including withholding tax), levy or fee for the import or export, transfer, access or use of the Pr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 gram, then Licensee is responsible to pay any such amount imposed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. If Licensee imports, exports, transfers, accesses, or uses a Program across a border, Licensee agrees to be responsible for and pay authorities any custom, duty, tax, or similar levy as\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
sessed by the authorities. This excludes those taxes based on IBM's net income.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.1 Licensing Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Licensee will, for all Programs at all sites and for all environments, create, retain, and provide to IBM upon request with 30 days' advance not\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ice: i) a report, in a format requested by IBM using records, system tools output, and other system information; and ii) supporting documentation (collectively, "Deployment Data").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. Upon reasonable notice, IBM and its independent auditors may verify Lic\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ensee's compliance with this Agreement, at all sites and for all environments in which Licensee uses (for any purposes) Programs. Verification will be conducted in a manner that minimizes disruption to Licensee's business and may be conducted on Licensee'
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 premises, during normal business hours. IBM will have a written confidentiality agreement with the independent auditor. In addition to providing Deployment Data described above, Licensee agrees to provide to IBM and its auditors additional accurate infor
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ation and Deployment Data upon request.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee will promptly order and pay charges at IBM's then current rates associated with: i) any deployments or use in excess of authorizations or in violation of this agreement indicated on or by any verificatio
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n; ii) applicable subscription & support services (S&S) for such excess deployments for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years; and iii) any additional charges and other liabilities determined as a result of such verification, includin
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  but not limited to taxes, duties, and regulatory fees.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 4. Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM's entire liability for all claims related to the Agreement will not exceed the amount of any actual direct damages incurred by Licensee up to the greater of: i) U.S. $10,000.00 (\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
or equivalent in local currency); or ii) the amounts paid (if recurring charges, up to 12 months' charges apply) for the entitlements to the Program that is the subject of the claim, regardless of the basis of the claim. IBM will not be liable for special
,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 incidental, exemplary, indirect, or economic consequential damages, or for lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings. These limitations apply collectively to IBM, its affiliates, contractors, and suppliers.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. The following\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  amounts are not subject to the above cap: damages that cannot be limited under applicable law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. IBM has no responsibility for claims based on non-IBM products, items not provided by IBM, or any violation of law or third party rights caused by Content, \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
or any Licensee materials, designs, specifications. Content consists of all data, software, and information that Licensee or its authorized users provide, authorize access to, or inputs to a Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. The Evaluation Period begins on the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
date Licensee agrees to the terms of this Agreement and ends upon the earliest of: i) the date specified in the applicable TD; or ii) the date on which the Program automatically disables itself. Licensee will destroy the Program and all copies made of it 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ithin ten days of the end of the Evaluation Period. Licensee is responsible to remove any Content prior to expiration of the Evaluation Period as any disabling device may prevent use upon expiration.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. If IBM specifies in a TD that Licensee may retain th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e Program, and Licensee elects to do so, then the Program will be subject to a different license agreement, which IBM will provide to Licensee. In addition, a charge may apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. IBM may terminate Licensee's license to use a Program if Licensee fails to \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
comply with the ILAE, TDs or acquisition agreements, such as the International Passport Advantage Agreement (IPAA). Licensee will promptly destroy all copies of the Program after license termination. Any terms that by their nature extend beyond the termin
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tion remain in effect until fulfilled and apply to successors and assignees.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
a. Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed, without regard to conflict of law principles. The rights and obligations of each party are valid only in the country where the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed or, if IBM agrees, the country where the Program is placed in productive use, except all licenses are valid as specifically granted.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. Each party is also responsible for complying with: i) laws and\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 regulations applicable to its business and Content; and ii) import, export and economic sanction laws and regulations, including the defense trade control regime of the United States of America and any applicable jurisdictions, that prohibit or restrict 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 he import, export, re-export, or transfer of products, technology, services or data, directly or indirectly, to or for certain countries, end uses or end users.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. If any provision of this Agreement for a Program, is invalid or unenforceable, the remainin\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
g provisions remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this Agreement affects statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to tr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nsactions under this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM is an independent contractor, not Licensee's agent, joint venturer, partner, or fiduciary, and does not undertake to perform any of Licensee's regulatory obligations, or assume any responsibility for Lice
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nsee's business or operations. Licensee is responsible for its use of IBM Programs and Non-IBM Programs. IBM is acting as an information technology provider only. IBM's direction, suggested usage, or guidance or use of a Program does not constitute medica
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 , clinical, legal, accounting, or other licensed professional advice. Licensee should obtain its own expert advice.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. For Programs IBM provides to Licensee in tangible form, IBM fulfills its shipping and delivery obligations upon the delivery of such Pro\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
grams to the IBM-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Licensee and IBM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee may not use the Program if failure of the Program could lead to death, serious bodily injury, or property or environmental damage.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. IBM, its aff\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
iliates, and contractors of either require use of business contact information and certain account usage information. This information is not Content. Business contact information is used to communicate and manage business dealings with the Licensee. Exam
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 p\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
les of business contact information include name, business telephone, address, email, user ID, and tax registration information. Account usage information is required to enable, provide, manage, support, administer, and improve Programs. Examples of accou
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
t usage information include reported errors and digital information gathered using tracking technologies, such as cookies and web beacons, during use of the Programs. The IBM Privacy Statement at https://www.ibm.com/privacy/ provides additional details wi
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
h respect to IBM's collection, use, and handling of business contact and account usage information. When Licensee provides information to IBM and notice to, or consent by, the individuals is required for such processing, Licensee will notify individuals a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d obtain consent.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. IBM Business Partners who use or make available Programs are independent from IBM and unilaterally determine their prices and terms. IBM is not responsible for their actions, omissions, statements, or offerings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. IBM may offer Non-\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
IBM Programs, or an IBM Program may enable access to Non-IBM Programs, that may require acceptance of third party terms identified in a TD or presented to the Licensee. Linking to or use of Non-IBM Programs constitutes Licensee's agreement with such terms
.\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  IBM is not a party to such third party agreements and is not responsible for such Non-IBM Programs.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g. License grants to Programs are provided by International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation ("IBM Corporation"). The IBM company fro\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
m which the Licensee acquires entitlements ("IBM") is acting as a distributor and delivering Programs and is responsible for enforcing the terms of this Agreement. If entitlements are acquired from an IBM Business Partner, the IBM company for the country 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
f acquisition is responsible for enforcing the terms of this Agreement. No right or cause of action is created in favor of Licensee against IBM Corporation. Licensee waives all claims and causes of action against IBM Corporation and agrees to look solely 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o IBM for any rights and remedies in connection with Programs.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. Licensee may not sublicense, assign, or transfer the license for any Program (except to the extent assignment or transfer may not be legally restricted or as is expressly permitted in a TD \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
or as otherwise agreed by IBM). IBM may assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement in conjunction with the sale of the portion of IBM's business that includes a Program. IBM may share this Agreement and related documents in conjunction with an
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 y\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  assignment.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
i. All notices under the Agreement must be in writing and sent to the business address specified in the agreement Licensee acquired the license entitlements unless a party designates in writing a different address. The parties consent to the 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
use of electronic means and facsimile transmissions for communications as a signed writing. Any reproduction of the Agreement made by reliable means is considered an original. Agreement supersedes any course of dealing, discussions or representations, bet
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 w\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 een the parties.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
j. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by the Agreement. Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose. Neither party is responsible for failur
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control. Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims the other has not met its obligations.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 k. IBM may use personnel and resources in locations worldwi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
de, including third party contractors to support the delivery of Programs and Program support. Licensee's use of Programs may result in the transfer of Content, including personally identifiable information, across country borders to provide Program suppo
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t as described in the IBM Software Support Guide.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 2 - Country Required Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For licenses acquired in the countries specified below, the following terms replace or modify the referenced terms of this ILAE. Terms not changed by these amendments remai\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n unchanged and in effect.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. AMERICAS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 4. Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Insert the following disclaimer at the end of paragraph a:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Peru: In accordance with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code this limitations and exclusions will not apply in the cases of wi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
llful misconduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, replace the first sentence only with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Argentina: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 
Argentina, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any proceeding regarding the rights, duties, and obligations arising from this Agreement will be brought in the Ordinary Commercial Court of the City of "Ciudad Aut\'f3\loch\f1 
noma de Buenos Aires".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Chi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
le: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Chile, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any conflict, interpretation or breach related to this Agreement that cannot be solved by the Parties should be remitted to the jurisdiction 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f the Ordinary Courts of the city and district of Santiago.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Colombia: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Colombia, without regard to the conflict of law principles. All rights, duties and obligations are subject to the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  judges of the Republic of Colombia.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ecuador: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Ecuador, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any dispute arising out or relating to this Agreement will be submitted to the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  civil judges of Quito and to the verbal summary proceeding.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Venezuela: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Venezuela, without regard to the conflict of law principles. The parties agree to submit any conflict related to this Agreement, existing between them to the Courts of the Metropolitan Are
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  of the City of Caracas.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Peru: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Peru, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any discrepancy that may arise between the parties in the execution, interpretation or compliance of this Agreem
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ent that may not be directly resolved shall be submitted to the Jurisdiction and Competence of the Judges and Tribunals of the 'Cercado de Lima' Judicial District.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Uruguay: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Uruguay. Any discrepancy t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
hat may arise between the parties in the execution, interpretation or compliance of this Agreement that may not be directly resolved shall be submitted to the Montevideo Courts ("Tribunales Ordinarios de Montevideo").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, first sentence only, \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In United States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, Saint Eustatius, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tortola, Trinidad and Tobago, and Turk and Caicos: the State of New York, United States.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Canada: the Pr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ovince of Ontario and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, second sentence, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed " with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Argentina: Argentina
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Chile: Chile
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Colombia: Colombia
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ecuador: Ecuador
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: Mexico
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Peru: Peru
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Uruguay: Uruguay
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Venezuela: Venezuela
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following sentences at the end of paragraph b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 In Brazil: All disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Forum of the City of S\'e3\loch\f1 
\hich\f1 o Paulo, State of S\'e3\loch\f1 o Paulo, Brazil and the parties irrevoca\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ly agree with this specific jurisdiction renouncing any other, however privileged it may be.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: The Parties agree to submit themselves to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Mexico City to resolve any dispute arising from this Agreement. T\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
he Parties waive to any other jurisdiction that may correspond to them due to their current or future domiciles, or for any other reason.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph g:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In United States: delete the last 2 sentences.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph i, add the followin\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g new sentence after the first sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: Any change of address must be notified 10 (ten) days in advance, otherwise the notifications made at the last indicated address will have full legal effects.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Brazil: delete the entir\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e 2nd sentence of "Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add as a new paragraph l to this section:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Canada: Both parties agree to write this document in \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 English. Les parties ont convenu de r\'e9\loch\f1 \hich\f1 diger le pr\'e9\loch\f1 sent document en langue anglaise.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. ASIA PACIFIC
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 2. Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of this section as a new paragraph c:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: These warranties are in addition to any rights under, and only limited to the extent permitted by, the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Japan: IBM's liability is limited to this paragraph and the Liability section, applicable TDs as Lic\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ensee's sole remedy for failure to meet the warranties specified in this section.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In New Zealand: These warranties are in addition to any rights under the Consumer Guarantee Act 1993 or other legislation that cannot be limited by law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 4. Liabilit\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 y
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, add at the end of the first sentence the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: (for example, whether based in contract, tort, negligence, under statute or otherwise)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, second sentence after the word "special" and before the word "inci\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 dental", add the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Philippines: (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral,
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 5. Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of the section as a new paragraph d:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Indonesia: The parties waive article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code to the ex\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tent it requires a court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual obligations.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the first sentence only, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Cambodia, Laos: the State of New York, United States
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: the State or Territory in which the tran\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 saction is performed
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hong Kong: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Macau: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Korea: the Republic of Korea, and subject to the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Seoul Central District Court of the Republic of Korea
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Taiwan: Taiwan
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: India
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, in the first sentence, item ii), after the word "including" and before word "defense", add:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Japan: those of Japan laws and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e second sentence, replace the phrase "the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed or, if IBM agrees, the country where the Program is placed in productive use" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hong Kong: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Re\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 gion of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Macau: the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Taiwan: Taiwan
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of the section as a new paragraph d:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Cambodia, Laos, Philippines, and Sri Lanka: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Singapore under the Arbitration Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: Disputes shall be finally settled in accord\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ance with The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 then in effect, in English, with seat in Bangalore, India. There shall be one arbitrator if the amount in dispute is less than or equal to Indian Rupee five crores and three arbitrators if the amount is
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 more. When an arbitrator is replaced, proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Indonesia: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Jakarta, Indonesia, administered by the Indonesian National Board of A\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rbitration established in the year 1977 ("Badan Arbitrase Nasional Indonesia" or "BANI") in accordance with the rules of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration The arbitration award shall be final and binding on the parties without appeal and shall 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusion of law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In People's Republic of China: Either party has the right to submit the dispute to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission in Beijing, the PRC, for arbitr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ation. The parties agree three arbitrators will be used to resolve any dispute.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Vietnam: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Vietnam under the Arbitration Rules of the Vietnam International Arbitration Centre ("VIAC Rules"). All proceedi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ngs and documents presented will be in the English language.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, in the second sentence, replace the phrase "two years" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: three years
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add to the end of this section the following new paragraph l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Indones\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ia: This agreement is made in the English and Bahasa Indonesian language versions. To the extent permitted by the applicable law, the English version will prevail in the event of conflict between such versions.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3. EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 4. Liability
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the first sentence insert the following before the words "the amounts paid":
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 In Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, and Spain: the greater of \'80\loch\f1 500,000 (five hundred thousand euro) or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ireland and United Kingdom: 125% of
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the first sentence, replace the phrase "direct damages incurred \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 by Licensee" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: and proven damages incurred by Licensee as a direct consequence of the IBM default
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, insert after the first sentence the following new sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 In Slovakia: Referring to \'a7\loch\f1  379 of the Commercial Code, Act No. 5\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
13/1991 Coll. as amended, and concerning all conditions related to the conclusion of the agreement, both parties state that the total foreseeable damage, which may accrue, shall not exceed the amount above, and it is the maximum for which IBM is responsib
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, insert before the second sentence the following new sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Russia: IBM will not be liable for the forgone benefit.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the second sentence, delete the word:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ireland and United Kingdom: economic
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 , replace the second sentence with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg: IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, damage to reputation or anticipated savings, any third party claim
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  against Licensee, and loss of (or damage to) data.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: IBM will not be liable for damages to reputation, indirect damages, or lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Portugal: IBM will not be liable for indire\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ct damages, including loss of profit.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: IBM will not be liable for damage to reputation, lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following at the end of paragraph a:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: The terms of the Agreement, including financial terms, were estab\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 lished in consideration of the present clause, which is an integral part of the general economy of the Agreement.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, replace "damages that cannot be limited under applicable law" with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Germany: i) damages for body injury (in\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
cluding death); ii) loss or damage caused by a breach of guarantee assumed by IBM in connection with any transaction under this Agreement; and iii) caused intentionally or by gross negligence.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 , first sentence only, replace the phrase "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Kaza\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
khstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: Austria
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: Finland
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central Afric\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
an Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocco, New Cale
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 onia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: France
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakista\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: England
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Liechtenstein: Switzerland
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Republic of South Africa
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In United Kingdom: England
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, add the following at the end of the first sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: The Parties agree that articles 1222 and 1223 of the French Civil Code are not applicable.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following at the end of paragraph a:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
f Macedonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the International Arbitral Centre
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (Arbitration Body), under the Rules of Arbitration of that Arbitral Centre (Vienna Rules), in Vienna, Austria, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 V\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ienna Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Vienna Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award in
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 j\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
unctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality pro
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 v\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
isions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Estonia, Latvia, \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
and Lithuania: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the Arbitration Institute of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (FAI) (Arbitration Body), under the Arbitration Rules of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (Rules), in Helsink
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, Finland, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with those Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will b
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judic
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
al proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Afghanistan, Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mada\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
gascar, Malawi,, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Palestinian Territory, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Sahara, Yemen, Zambia, and Zim
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
abwe: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA) (Arbitration Body), under the LCIA Arbitration Rules (the Rules), in London, UK, with English as the official language, by th
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ee impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
bitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amoun
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s below USD 500,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Algeria, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritani
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
a, Mauritius, Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Tunisia: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the ICC International Court of Arbitration, in Paris (Arbitration Body), under its arbitration rules (the Rules), in Paris, Fr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nce, with French as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appoint
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proce
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
dings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its En
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 erprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 250,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa (AFSA) (Arbitra\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
tion Body), under the Rules of the Arbitration of the AFSA (the Rules), in Johannesburg, South Africa, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, w
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
o will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
is Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 250,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Andorra, Austria, Cyprus, France, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Portugal, Spai\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n, Switzerland, and Turkey: All disputes will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the following court of competent jurisdiction:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Andorra: the Commercial Court of Paris.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Austria: the court of Vienna, Austria (Inner City).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Cyprus: the competent court of Nicosia.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: Commercial Court of Paris.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Germany: the courts of Stuttgart.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Greece: the competent court of Athens.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv Jaffa.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Italy: the courts of Milan.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Portugal: the courts of Lisbon.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: the courts of Madrid.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Switzerland: the commercial court of the canton of Zurich.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Turkey: the Istanbul Central (Caglayan) Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e Republic of Turkey.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Netherlands: The Parties waive their rights under Title 7.1 ('Koop') and clause 7:401 and 402 of the Dutch Civil Code, and their rights to invoke a full or partial dissolution ('gehele of partiele ontbinding') of this Agreement un
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 der section 6:265 of the Dutch Civil Code.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph d, insert the following at the end of the paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: IBM will comply with requests to access, update or delete contact information if submitted to the following address\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
: IBM, c/ Santa Hortensia 26-28, 28002 Madrid, Departamento de Privacidad de Datos.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, add to the end the paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Czech Republic: Pursuant to Section 1801 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll. (the "Civil Code"), Section 1799 and Section 1800 of th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e Civil Code as amended, do not apply to transactions under this Agreement. Licensee accepts the risk of a change of circumstances under Section 1765 of the Civil Code.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Bulgaria, Croatia, Russia, Serbia, and Slovenia: delete the 2nd sentence that says: "Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose".

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, add to the end\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  of the second sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Lithuania: , except as provided by law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, replace the second sentence with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Poland: Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than three years after the cause of a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ction arose, except for an action of non-payment which will be brought no more than 2 years after payment is due.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, second sentence, replace the word "two" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Latvia and Ukraine: three
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Slovakia: four
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, add to the en\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d of the third sentence that says: "Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control":
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Russia: , including but not limited to earthquakes, floods, fires, acts of God, strikes (excluding s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
trikes of the parties' employees), acts of war, military actions, embargoes, blockades, international or governmental sanctions, and acts of authorities of the applicable jurisdiction.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, third sentence, modify the sentence: "Neither party is\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control" as follows:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ukraine: Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes or regulatory changes beyond its cont\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rol, including but not limited to import, export and economic sanctions requirements of the United States.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following at the end of the section as new paragraph l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hungary: By entering into this Agreement, Licensee confirms that Licensee was su\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
fficiently informed of all the provisions of this Agreement and had the opportunity to negotiate those terms. The following provisions may significantly deviate from the provisions generally applied by Hungarian law and both parties accept those provision
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  by signing the Agreement: Program License; Warranties; Charges, Taxes, Payment, and Verification; Liability; Termination; Governing Laws and Geographic Scope; and General.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Czech Republic: Licensee expressly accepts the terms of this agreement which include the following important commercial terms: i) limitation and disclaimer of liability for defects (Warranties); ii) limitation of Licensee's entitlement to damages (Liab
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
lity); iii) binding nature of export and import regulations (Governing Laws and Geographic Scope); iv) shorter limitation periods (General); v) exclusion of applicability of provisions on adhesion contracts (General); and vi) acceptance of the risk of a c
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ange of circumstances (General).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Romania: The Licensee expressly accepts, the following standard clauses that may be deemed 'unusual clauses' as per the provisions of article 1203 Romanian Civil Code: clauses 2, 4, 5, 8j. The Licensee hereby acknowledg
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
es that it was sufficiently informed of all the provisions of this Agreement, including the clauses mentioned above, it properly analyzed and understood such provisions and had the opportunity to negotiate the terms of each clause.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i125-5543-06 (10-2021)
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 International Program License Agreement
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 1 - General Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TE\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
RMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS OR DO NOT HAVE AUTHORITY: i) DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM;\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 AND ii) PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED MEDIA, DOCUMENTATION, AND PROOF OF ENTITLEMENT TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED FOR A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT PAID. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, DESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 This International Program License\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 Agreement (IPLA) and applicable Transaction Documents (together the "Agreement") are the complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of a Program. The country required terms included in Part 2 of this IPLA replace or modify the terms of
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 1.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Transaction Documents (TDs) provide a description, information, and terms regarding the Program and its authorized use. Examples of TDs for Programs include license information (LI), licensed program specifications (LPS), quote, proof of entitleme
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nt (PoE), or invoice. To the extent of any conflict a TD will prevail over the IPLA.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. Program License
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. A Program is an executable IBM-branded computer program and its related material and includes whole and partial copies. Program details are describ\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ed in a TD available at http://www.ibm.com/software/sla (for Passport Advantage Programs) or http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter (for other IBM Programs), in the Program's system command directory, or as otherwise specified by IBM. IBM software pol
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 cies (such as backup, temporary use and IBM approved cloud environment) available at http://www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies apply to Licensee's use of Programs.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. Copies of Programs are copyrighted and licensed.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee is granted a nonexclusive licens\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e to:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) use each copy of a Program, subject to the terms of the Agreement and up to the number of license entitlements Licensee acquires ("Authorized Use");
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) make and install copies to support such Authorized Use; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) make a backup copy.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. Programs \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
may be used by Licensee, its employees and contractors. Licensee may not rent or lease a Program or provide commercial IT, hosting or timesharing services to any third party. Additional rights may be available for additional fees or under different terms.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. The license granted for a Program is subject to Licensee:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (1) reproducing copyright notices and other markings on any copy;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (2) ensuring anyone who uses the Program: i) does so only on Licensee's behalf within Licensee's Authorized Use; and ii) compl\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ies with this Agreement;
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (3) not reverse assembling, reverse compiling, translating, or reverse engineering the Program, except as expressly permitted by law without the possibility of contractual waiver; and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 (4) not using any of the elements of the Prog\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ram or related licensed materials separately from the Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. If the TD for a Program ("Principal Program") states that a "Supporting Program" is included with the Principal Program, Licensee may use the Supporting Program subject to any license limit\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ations of the Principal Program and only to support the Principal Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g. This license applies to each copy of the Program that Licensee makes.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. An update, fix, or patch to a Program is subject to the terms governing the Program unless new terms ar\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e provided in an updated TD. Licensee accepts such new terms upon installation of the update, fix, or patch. If a Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i. If Licensee is dissatisfied with a \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Program for any reason, Licensee may terminate the license by returning the Program and proof of entitlement to IBM or the authorized IBM Business Partner within 30 days of the original acquisition date of such Program for a refund of the amount paid. For
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a downloaded Program, contact the party Licensee acquired the Program from for refund instructions.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
a. IBM warrants that a Program, when used in its specified operating environment conforms to its specifications. The warranty period for a Program is 12 months from acquisition, or the initial license term if less than 12 months, unless another warranty p
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 riod is specified in the TD.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
b. During the warranty period Licensee will have access to IBM databases containing information on known Program defects, defect corrections, restrictions, and bypasses as described in the IBM Support Guide at http://www.ibm.c
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 om/support/pages/node/733923.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
c. If the Program does not function as warranted during its warranty period and the problem cannot be resolved with information available in the IBM databases, Licensee may return the Program and proof of entitlement to IBM o
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r the IBM Business Partner for a refund of the amount Licensee paid and Licensee's license terminates.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. IBM does not warrant uninterrupted or error-free operation of an IBM Program or that IBM will correct all defects or prevent third party disruptions.\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 These warranties are the exclusive warranties from IBM and replace all other warranties, including the implied warranties or conditions of satisfactory quality, merchantability, non-infringement, and fitness for a particular purpose. IBM warranties will 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ot apply if there has been misuse, modification, damage not caused by IBM, or failure to comply with written instructions provided by IBM. Non-IBM Programs are provided as-is, without warranties of any kind. Third parties may provide their own warranties 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. Additional support available during or after the warranty period may be available under separate agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3. Charges, Taxes, Payment, and Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Licensee's right to use a Program is contingent on Licensee paying applicable char\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ges as specified in the agreement under which Licensee acquired the license entitlements. Licensee is responsible to acquire additional license entitlements in advance of any increase of its use.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. Licensee agrees to pay all applicable charges for acquir\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ed entitlements and any charges for use in excess of authorizations. Charges are exclusive of any customs or other duty, tax, and similar levies imposed by any authority resulting from Licensee's acquisition of entitlements and will be invoiced in additio
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 to such charges. Amounts are due upon receipt of the invoice from IBM and payable within 30 days of the invoice date to an account specified by IBM and late payment fees may apply. Licensee is responsible to properly acquire additional license entitlemen
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s in advance to increase its use. IBM does not give credits or refunds for charges already due or paid, except as specified elsewhere in this IPLA, the applicable TD, or terms of the agreement under which Licensee acquired license entitlements.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Based o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n acquired entitlements, Licensee agrees to: i) pay any withholding tax directly to the appropriate government entity where required by law; ii) furnish a tax certificate evidencing such payment to IBM; iii) pay IBM only the net proceeds after tax; and iv
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 )\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  fully cooperate with IBM in seeking a waiver or reduction of such taxes and promptly complete and file all relevant documents.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. If Licensee imports, exports, transfers, accesses, or uses a Program across a border, Licensee agrees to be responsible for \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
and pay authorities any custom, duty, tax, or similar levy assessed by the authorities. This excludes those taxes based on IBM's net income.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3.1 Licensing Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Licensee will, for all Programs at all sites and for all environments, create, reta\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
in, and each year provide to IBM upon request with 30 days' advance notice: i) a report, in a format requested by IBM using records, system tools output, and other system information; and ii) supporting documentation (collectively, "Deployment Data").

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Upon reasonable notice, IBM and its independent auditors may verify Licensee's compliance with this Agreement, at all sites and for all environments, in which Licensee uses (for any purposes) Programs. Verification will be conducted in a manner that minim
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
zes disruption to Licensee's business and may be conducted on Licensee's premises, during normal business hours. IBM will have a written confidentiality agreement with the independent auditor. In addition to providing Deployment Data described above, Lice
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 see agrees to provide to IBM and its auditors additional accurate information and Deployment Data upon request.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee will promptly order and pay charges at IBM's then current rates associated with: i) any deployments in excess of authorizations ind\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
icated on or by any annual report or verification; ii) applicable subscription & support services (S&S) for such excess deployments for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years; and iii) any additional charges and other liabilities deter
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ined as a result of such verification, including but not limited to taxes, duties, and regulatory fees.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 4. Liability and Intellectual Property Protection
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM's entire liability for all claims relate\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d to this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any actual direct damages incurred by Licensee up to the amounts paid (if recurring charges, up to 12 months' charges apply) for the entitlements to the Program that is the subject of the claim, regardless
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
of the basis of the claim. IBM will not be liable for special, incidental, exemplary, indirect, or economic consequential damages, or for lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings. These limitations apply collectively to IBM
,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  its affiliates, contractors, and suppliers.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. The following amounts are not subject to the above cap: i) third party payments related to infringement claims described in clause 4 c below; and ii) damages that cannot be limited under applicable law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
If a third party asserts a claim against Licensee that an IBM Program infringes a patent or copyright, IBM will defend Licensee against that claim and pay amounts finally awarded by a court against Licensee or included in a settlement approved by IBM. To 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
btain IBM's defense against and payment of infringement claims, Licensee must promptly: i) notify IBM in writing of the claim; ii) supply information requested by IBM; and iii) allow IBM to control, and reasonably cooperate in, the defense and settlement,
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
including mitigation efforts. IBM's defense and payment obligations for infringement claims extend to claims of infringement based on open source code that IBM selects and embeds in an IBM Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. IBM has no responsibility for claims based on non-IBM \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
products, items not provided by IBM, or any violation of law or third party rights caused by Content, or any Licensee materials, designs, specifications, or use of a non-current version or release of an IBM Program when an infringement claim could have be
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n avoided by using a current version or release. Content consists of all data, software, and information that Licensee or its authorized users provide, authorize access to, or inputs to a Program.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 5. Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM may terminate Licensee's license to\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 use a Program if Licensee fails to comply with the IPLA, TDs or acquisition agreements, such as the International Passport Advantage Agreement (IPAA). Licensee will promptly destroy all copies of the Program after license termination. Any terms that by t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 eir nature extend beyond the termination remain in effect until fulfilled and apply to successors and assignees.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country where the transaction for license \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
entitlements is performed, without regard to conflict of law principles. The rights and obligations of each party are valid only in the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed or, if IBM agrees, the country where the Pro
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ram is placed in productive use, except all licenses are valid as specifically granted.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b. Each party is also responsible for complying with: i) laws and regulations applicable to its business and Content; and ii) import, export and economic sanction laws\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 and regulations, including the defense trade control regime of the United States of America and any applicable jurisdictions, that prohibit or restrict the import, export, re-export, or transfer of products, technology, services or data, directly or indi
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ectly, to or for certain countries, end uses or end users.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. If any provision of this Agreement for a Program, is invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this Agreement affects statutory rights of co
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nsumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to transactions under this Agreement.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a. IBM is an independent contractor, not Licensee's agent\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, joint venturer, partner, or fiduciary, and does not undertake to perform any of Licensee's regulatory obligations, or assume any responsibility for Licensee's business or operations. Licensee is responsible for its use of IBM Programs and Non-IBM Progra
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 m\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s. IBM is acting as an information technology provider only. IBM's direction, suggested usage, or guidance or use of a Program does not constitute medical, clinical, legal, accounting, or other licensed professional advice. Licensee should obtain its own 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 xpert advice.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
b. For Programs IBM provides to Licensee in tangible form, IBM fulfills its shipping and delivery obligations upon the delivery of such Programs to the IBM-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Licensee and IBM.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c. Licensee may not use the Program if failure of the Program could lead to death, serious bodily injury, or property or environmental damage.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d. IBM, its affiliates, and contractors of either require use of business contact information and certain accoun\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
t usage information. This information is not Content. Business contact information is used to communicate and manage business dealings with the Licensee. Examples of business contact information include name, business telephone, address, email, user ID, a
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
d tax registration information. Account usage information is required to enable, provide, manage, support, administer, and improve Programs. Examples of account usage information include reported errors and digital information gathered using tracking tech
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ologies, such as cookies and web beacons, during use of the Programs. The IBM Privacy Statement at http://www.ibm.com/privacy provides additional details with respect to IBM's collection, use, and handling of business contact and account usage information
.\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  When Licensee provides information to IBM and notice to, or consent by, the individuals is required for such processing, Licensee will notify individuals and obtain consent.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e. IBM Business Partners who use or make available Programs are independent from\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 IBM and unilaterally determine their prices and terms. IBM is not responsible for their actions, omissions, statements, or offerings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 f. IBM may offer Non-IBM Programs, or an IBM Program may enable access to Non-IBM Programs, that may require acceptance \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
of third party terms identified in a TD or presented to the Licensee. Linking to or use of Non-IBM Programs constitutes Licensee's agreement with such terms. IBM is not a party to any third party agreement and is not responsible for such Non-IBM Programs.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
g. License grants to Programs are provided by International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation ("IBM Corporation"). The IBM company from which the Licensee acquires entitlements ("IBM") is acting as a distributor and delivering Programs
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 and is responsible for enforcing the terms of this Agreement. If entitlements are acquired from an IBM Business Partner, the IBM company for the country of acquisition is responsible for enforcing the terms of this Agreement. No right or cause of action 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
s created in favor of Licensee against IBM Corporation. Licensee waives all claims and causes of action against IBM Corporation and agrees to look solely to IBM for any rights and remedies in connection with Programs.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h. Licensee may not sublicense, assig\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
n, or transfer the license for any Program (except to the extent assignment or transfer may not be legally restricted or as is expressly permitted in a TD or as otherwise agreed by IBM). IBM may assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement in co
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 junction with the sale of the portion of IBM's business that includes a Program. IBM may share this Agreement and related documents in conjunction with any assignment.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i. All notices under the Agreement must be in writing and sent to the business address \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
specified in the agreement Licensee acquired the license entitlements unless a party designates in writing a different address. The parties consent to the use of electronic means and facsimile transmissions for communications as a signed writing. Any repr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 duction of the Agreement made by reliable means is considered an original. Agreement supersedes any course of dealing, discussions or representations, between the parties.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 j. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by the Agreement. Nei\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ther party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose. Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control. Each pa
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 r\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ty will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims the other has not met its obligations.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 k. IBM may use personnel and resources in locations worldwide, including third party contractors to support the delivery of Programs and Progr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
am support. Licensee's use of Programs may result in the transfer of Content, including personally identifiable information, across country borders to provide Program support as described in the IBM Software Support Guide.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Part 2 - Country Required Terms
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 For licenses acquired in the countries specified below, the following terms replace or modify the referenced terms of this IPLA. Terms not changed by these amendments remain unchanged and in effect.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 1. AMERICAS
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 3. Charges, Taxes, Payment, and Ve\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 rification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Replace the first and second sentence of paragraph b with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Brazil: Licensee agrees to pay all applicable charges for acquired entitlements and any charges for use in excess of authorizations and any customs or other duty, tax, and similar levies imposed by any authority resulting from Licensee's acquisition of
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 entitlements.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: In the third sentence, delete the words "to an account specified by IBM".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: Add the following new sentence after the third sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Payments will be made through electronic transfer of funds to an acco\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 unt specified by IBM or in IBM's domicile which is located in Alfonso Napoles Gandara 3111, Santa Fe Pe\'f1
\loch\f1 a Blanca, Alvaro Obregon, Mexico City, Zip Code 01210.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of paragraph c the following sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Canada: Where taxes are based upon the\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 location(s) receiving the benefit of the Program, Licensee has an ongoing obligation to notify IBM of such location(s) if different than Licensee's business address listed in the applicable TD.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of paragraph c the following sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Un\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ited States: The parties agree no tangible personal property (e.g. media or publications) shall transfer to Licensee if: i) IBM delivers Programs electronically to Licensee; or ii) Licensee claims a sales or use tax exemption for Programs IBM delivers ele
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
tronically to Licensee. Where taxes are based upon the location(s) receiving the benefit of the Program, Licensee has an ongoing obligation to notify IBM of such location(s) if different than Licensee's business address listed in the applicable TD.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Sectio\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 n 4. Liability and Intellectual Property Protection
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Insert the following disclaimer at the end of paragraph a:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Peru: In accordance with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code this limitations and exclusions will not apply in the cases of willful misc\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
onduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, replace the first sentence only with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Argentina: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Argentina, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any proceeding regarding the rights, duties, and obligations arising from this Agreement will be brought in the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 Ordinary Commercial Court of the City of "Ciudad Aut\'f3\loch\f1 noma de Buenos Aires".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Chile: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Chile, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any conflict, interpretation or breach related to this Agre\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ement that cannot be solved by the Parties should be remitted to the jurisdiction of the Ordinary Courts of the city and district of Santiago.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Colombia: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Colombia, without regard to th\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
e conflict of law principles. All rights, duties and obligations are subject to the judges of the Republic of Colombia.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ecuador: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Ecuador, without regard to the conflict of law princip\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
les. Any dispute arising out or relating to this Agreement will be submitted to the civil judges of Quito and to the verbal summary proceeding.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Venezuela: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Venezuela, without regard to the conflict of\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 law principles. The parties agree to submit any conflict related to this Agreement, existing between them to the Courts of the Metropolitan Area of the City of Caracas.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Peru: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Peru, without regard to\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 the conflict of law principles. Any discrepancy that may arise between the parties in the execution, interpretation or compliance of this Agreement that may not be directly resolved shall be submitted to the Jurisdiction and Competence of the Judges and 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 T\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ribunals of the 'Cercado de Lima' Judicial District.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Uruguay: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Uruguay. Any discrepancy that may arise between the parties in the execution, interpretation or compliance of this Agreement that may not
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  be directly resolved shall be submitted to the Montevideo Courts ("Tribunales Ordinarios de Montevideo").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, first sentence only, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In United \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, Saint Eustatius, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, Saint
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tortola, Trinidad and Tobago, and Turk and Caicos: the State of New York, United States.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Canada: the Province of Ontario and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, second sentence, replace \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 the phrase, "the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Argentina: Argentina
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Chile: Chile
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Colombia: Colombia
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ecuador: Ecuador
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: Mexico
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Peru: Peru
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Uruguay: Uruguay
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Venezuela: Venezuela
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following sentences at the end of paragraph b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Brazil: All disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive ju\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 
risdiction of the Forum of the City of S\'e3\loch\f1 \hich\f1 o Paulo, State of S\'e3\loch\f1 o Paulo, Brazil and the parties irrevocably agree with this specific jurisdiction renouncing any other, however privileged it may be.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: The Parties agree to submit themselves to the exc\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
lusive jurisdiction of the courts of Mexico City to resolve any dispute arising from this Agreement. The Parties waive to any other jurisdiction that may correspond to them due to their current or future domiciles, or for any other reason.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 7. Gene\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ral
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph g:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In United States: delete the last 2 sentences.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph i, add the following new sentence after the first sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Mexico: Any change of address must be notified 10 (ten) days in advance, otherwise the notifications made at \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 the last indicated address will have full legal effects.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Brazil: delete the entire 2nd sentence of "Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose".
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add as a new paragraph l to this section:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Canada: Both parties agree\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1  to write this document in English. Les parties ont convenu de r\'e9\loch\f1 \hich\f1 diger le pr\'e9\loch\f1 sent document en langue anglaise.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. ASIA PACIFIC
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 2. Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of this section as a new paragraph f:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: These warranties are in addition to \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 any rights under, and only limited to the extent permitted by, the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Japan: IBM's liability is limited to this paragraph and the Liability and Intellectual Property Protection section, applicable TDs as Licensee's sole \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
remedy for failure to meet the warranties specified in this section.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In New Zealand: These warranties are in addition to any rights under the Consumer Guarantee Act 1993 or other legislation that cannot be limited by law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 3. Charges, Taxes, Payme\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nt, and Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b. replace the third sentence with the following 2 sentences:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hong Kong, Indonesia, Korea, Macau, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Vietnam: Amounts are due upon receipt of the invoice from IBM and payable within \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
30 days of the invoice date to an account specified by IBM. If payment is not received within 30 days from the invoice date, IBM may charge a late payment fee on the amount outstanding, calculated on the number of days the payment is received late, at the
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 lesser of: i) 2% for every 30 day period or portion thereof; or ii) the maximum amount permissible by applicable law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Thailand: Amounts are due upon receipt of the invoice from IBM and payable within 30 days of the invoice date to an account specified \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
by IBM. If payment is not received within 30 days from the invoice date, a late payment fee may be applied on the amount outstanding, at the rate of 1.25% per month, calculated on the number of days the payment is received late.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In the first sentence of p\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 aragraph c, remove the word "and" before "(iv)", and add a semicolon and the following new item "(v)":
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: ; and (v) file accurate Taxes Deduc\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ted at Source (TDS) returns on a timely basis. If any tax, duty, levy or fee ("Taxes") are not charged on the basis of the exemption documentation provided by the Licensee and the taxation authority subsequently rules that such Taxes should have been char
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ed, then the Licensee will be liable to pay such Taxes, including any interests, levies and/or penalties applicable thereon.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In the first sentence of paragraph c, remove the word "and" before "(iv)", and replace item (iv) and add new item (v) with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Si\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ngapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, and Vietnam: (iv) fully cooperate with IBM in seeking a waiver or reduction of withholding or other tax that Licensee requests a waiver or reduction; and v) promptly complete, file, and keep current all
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 relevant documents for any such waiver, reductions, or exemptions.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 4. Liability and Intellectual Property Protection
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, add at the end of the first sentence the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: (for example, whether based in contract, tort,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  negligence, under statute or otherwise)
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, second sentence after the word "special" and before the word "incidental", add the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Philippines: (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral,
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add as a new paragraph after the end\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  of paragraph a (and ensure paragraphs properly reletter):
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: Where IBM is in breach of a guarantee implied by the Competition and Consumer Act 2010, IBM's liability is limited to the repair or replacement of goods or the supply of equivalent g
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
oods, or the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or having the good repaired. Where a guarantee relates to the right to sell, quiet possession, or clear title of a good under schedule 2 of the Competition and Consumer Act, then none of these limita
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ions apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 5. Termination
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of the section as a new paragraph b:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Indonesia: The parties waive article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code to the extent it requires a court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  obligations.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the first sentence only, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Cambodia, Laos: the State of New York, United States
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Australia: the State or Territory in which the tran\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 saction is performed
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hong Kong: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Macau: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Korea: the Republic of Korea, and subject to the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Seoul Central District Court of the Republic of Korea
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Taiwan: Taiwan
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: India
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the second sentence, replace the phrase "the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed or, if IBM agrees, the cou\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ntry where the Program is placed in productive use" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hong Kong: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Macau: the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Taiwan: Taiwan
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, in the first sentence, item ii), after the word "including" and before words "the defense", add:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Japan: those of Japan laws and
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add at the end of the section as a new paragraph d:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Cambodia, Laos, Philippines, and Sri Lanka: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Singapore under the Arbitration Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules").
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: Disputes shall be finally settled in accord\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ance with The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 then in effect, in English, with seat in Bangalore, India. There shall be one arbitrator if the amount in dispute is less than or equal to Indian Rupee five crores and three arbitrators if the amount is
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 more. When an arbitrator is replaced, proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Indonesia: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Jakarta, Indonesia, administered by the Indonesian National Board of A\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rbitration established in the year 1977 ("Badan Arbitrase Nasional Indonesia" or "BANI") in accordance with the rules of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration The arbitration award shall be final and binding on the parties without appeal and shall 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 b\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusion of law.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In People's Republic of China: Either party has the right to submit the dispute to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission in Beijing, the PRC, for arbitr\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ation. The parties agree three arbitrators will be used to resolve any dispute.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Vietnam: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Vietnam under the Arbitration Rules of the Vietnam International Arbitration Centre ("VIAC Rules"). All proceedi\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ngs and documents presented will be in the English language.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, in the second sentence, replace the phrase "two years" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In India: three years
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add to the end of this section the following new paragraph l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Indones\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ia: This agreement is made in the English and Bahasa Indonesian language versions. To the extent permitted by the applicable law, the English version will prevail in the event of conflict between such versions.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 3. EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 2. Warranties
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph d, Replace the fourth sentence with the following two sentences:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Czech Republic, Estonia, and Lithuania: Non-IBM Programs are provided as-is, without warranties of any kind or liabilities for defects. The parties hereby exclude any liability of IBM for defects beyond the agreed warranties.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 3. Charges, Taxes,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  Payment, and Verification
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, add the following to the end of the third sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Italy: if IBM requests in a written notice to Licensee.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ukraine: , on the overdue amount from the next day after the due date up to the date of actual p\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ayment, prorated for each day of delay, at the interest rate of double the discount rate determined by the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) during the delay period (paragraph 6 of article 232 of Commercial Code of Ukraine does not apply).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, re\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 place the third sentence with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: Amounts are due and payable within 10 days of the invoice date to an account specified by IBM and late payment fees apply equal to the most recent European Central Bank rate plus 10 points, in additi
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 on to debt collection costs of forty (40) euros or, if these costs exceed forty euros, complementary indemnification subject to justification of the amount claimed).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Russia: Amounts are due upon receipt of the invoice and payable within 30 days of the \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
invoice date through electronic transfer of funds to an account specified by IBM. Late payment fees at the rate of 24% per annum calculated for each day beyond the 30 days may apply.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, add the following to the end of the last sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In L\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ithuania: , or except as provided by law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 At the end of paragraph b, add the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Italy: In the instance of no payment or partial payment, and also following a formal credit claim procedure or trial that IBM may initiate, in derogation of article\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 4 of Legislative Decree n. 231 dated October 9, 2002, and according to article 7 of the same Legislative Decree, IBM will notify Licensee in writing by registered, return receipt mail of late payment fees due.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 4. Liability and Intellectual Proper\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ty Protection
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the first sentence insert the following before the words "the amounts paid":
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 In Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, and Spain: the greater of \'80\loch\f1 500,000 (five hundred thousand euro) or
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ireland and United Kingdom: 125% of
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the first sentence, replace the phrase "direct damages incurred \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 by Licensee" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: and proven damages incurred by Licensee as a direct consequence of the IBM default
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, insert after the first sentence the following new sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 \hich\f1 In Slovakia: Referring to \'a7\loch\f1  379 of the Commercial Code, Act No. 5\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
13/1991 Coll. as amended, and concerning all conditions related to the conclusion of the agreement, both parties state that the total foreseeable damage, which may accrue, shall not exceed the amount above, and it is the maximum for which IBM is responsib
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 l\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, insert before the second sentence the following new sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Russia: IBM will not be liable for the forgone benefit.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, in the second sentence, delete the word:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ireland and United Kingdom: economic
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 , replace the second sentence with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg: IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, damage to reputation or anticipated savings, any third party claim
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  against Licensee, and loss of (or damage to) data.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: IBM will not be liable for damages to reputation, indirect damages, or lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Portugal: IBM will not be liable for indire\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ct damages, including loss of profit.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: IBM will not be liable for damage to reputation, lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following at the end of paragraph a:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: The terms of the Agreement, including financial terms, were estab\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 lished in consideration of the present clause, which is an integral part of the general economy of the Agreement.

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph b, replace "and ii) damages that cannot be limited under applicable law" with the following:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Germany: ; ii) damages for body\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 injury (including death); iii) loss or damage caused by a breach of guarantee assumed by IBM in connection with any transaction under this Agreement; and iv) caused intentionally or by gross negligence.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 paragraph a, first sentence only, replace the phrase "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ge\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
orgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: Austria
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: Finland
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Ce\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ntral African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocc
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 , New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: France
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Om\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
an, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: England
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Liechtenstein: Switzerland
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swa\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ziland: the Republic of South Africa
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In United Kingdom: England
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph a, add the following at the end of the first sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: The Parties agree that a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 rticles 1222 and 1223 of the French Civil Code are not applicable.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following at the end of paragraph a:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, K\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
osovo, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the International Arbitral Centre of the Austrian Federal Economic C
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 h\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
amber (Arbitration Body), under the Rules of Arbitration of that Arbitral Centre (Vienna Rules), in Vienna, Austria, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Vienna Rules. Each party will nomin
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
te one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Vienna Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property ri
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
hts, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: All disputes arising\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the Arbitration Institute of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (FAI) (Arbitration Body), under the Arbitration Rules of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (Rules), in Helsinki, Finland, with English as the off
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
cial language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with those Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim rel
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ef to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) d
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 bt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Afghanistan, Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi,, Mozambique, Nigeri
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
a, Oman, Pakistan, Palestinian Territory, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Sahara, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: All disputes arising out of 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 t\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
his Agreement shall be finally settled by the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA) (Arbitration Body), under the LCIA Arbitration Rules (the Rules), in London, UK, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority t
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 o\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confident
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Algeria\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Niger, Sene
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 g\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
al, Togo, and Tunisia: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the ICC International Court of Arbitration, in Paris (Arbitration Body), under its arbitration rules (the Rules), in Paris, France, with French as the official l
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nguage, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under th
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to pr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
vent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt colle
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 c\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 tion in amounts below USD 250,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa (AFSA) (Arbitration Body), under the Rules of the 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
Arbitration of the AFSA (the Rules), in Johannesburg, South Africa, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independ
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
nt chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agre
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 e\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ment will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyr
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ght, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 250,000.00.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Andorra, Austria, Cyprus, France, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, and Turkey: All dis\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
putes will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the following court of competent jurisdiction:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Andorra: the Commercial Court of Paris.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Austria: the court of Vienna, Austria (Inner City).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Cyprus: the competent court of \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Nicosia.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In France: Commercial Court of Paris.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Germany: the courts of Stuttgart.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Greece: the competent court of Athens.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv Jaffa.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Italy: the courts of Milan.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Portugal: the courts of Lisbon.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: the courts of Madrid.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Switzerland: the commercial court of the canton of Zurich.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Turkey: the Istanbul Central (Caglayan) Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, the Republic of Turkey.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Nether\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
lands: The Parties waive their rights under Title 7.1 ('Koop') and clause 7:401 and 402 of the Dutch Civil Code, and their rights to invoke a full or partial dissolution ('gehele of partiele ontbinding') of this Agreement under section 6:265 of the Dutch 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 C\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 ivil Code.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Section 7. General
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph d, insert the following at the end of the paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Spain: IBM will comply with requests to access, update or delete contact information if submitted to the following address: IBM, c/ Santa Hortensia 26-28,\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 28002 Madrid, Departamento de Privacidad de Datos.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, add to the end the paragraph:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Czech Republic: Pursuant to Section 1801 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll. (the "Civil Code"), Section 1799 and Section 1800 of the Civil Code as amended, do not \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
apply to transactions under this Agreement. Licensee accepts the risk of a change of circumstances under Section 1765 of the Civil Code.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Bulgaria, Croatia, Russia, Serbia, and Slovenia: delete the 2nd sentence that says: "Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose".

\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, add to the end\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  of the second sentence:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Lithuania: , except as provided by law
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, replace the second sentence with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Poland: Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than three years after the cause of a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
ction arose, except for an action of non-payment which will be brought no more than 2 years after payment is due.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, second sentence, replace the word "two" with:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Latvia and Ukraine: three
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Slovakia: four
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, add to the en\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 d of the third sentence that says: "Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control":
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Russia: , including but not limited to earthquakes, floods, fires, acts of God, strikes (excluding s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
trikes of the parties' employees), acts of war, military actions, embargoes, blockades, international or governmental sanctions, and acts of authorities of the applicable jurisdiction.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In paragraph j, third sentence, modify the sentence: "Neither party is\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control" as follows:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Ukraine: Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes or regulatory changes beyond its cont\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
rol, including but not limited to import, export and economic sanctions requirements of the United States.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 Add the following at the end of the section as new paragraph l:
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Hungary: By entering into this Agreement, Licensee confirms that Licensee was su\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
fficiently informed of all the provisions of this Agreement and had the opportunity to negotiate those terms. The following provisions may significantly deviate from the provisions generally applied by Hungarian law and both parties accept those provision
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 s\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
 by signing the Agreement: Program License; Warranties; Charges, Taxes, Payment, and Verification; Liability and Intellectual Property Protection; Termination; Governing Laws and Geographic Scope; and General.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
In Czech Republic: Licensee expressly accepts the terms of this agreement which include the following important commercial terms: i) limitation and disclaimer of liability for defects (Warranties); ii) limitation of Licensee's entitlement to damages (Liab
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
lity and Intellectual Property Protection); iii) binding nature of export and import regulations (Governing Laws and Geographic Scope); iv) shorter limitation periods (General); v) exclusion of applicability of provisions on adhesion contracts (General); 
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 a\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 nd vi) acceptance of the risk of a change of circumstances (General).
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 In Romania: The Licensee expressly accepts, the following standard clauses that may be deemed 'unusual clauses' as per the provisions of article 1203 Romanian Civil Code: clauses 2, 4, \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 
5, 8j. The Licensee hereby acknowledges that it was sufficiently informed of all the provisions of this Agreement, including the clauses mentioned above, it properly analyzed and understood such provisions and had the opportunity to negotiate the terms of
\hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1  \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 each clause.
\par 
\par \hich\af1\dbch\af31505\loch\f1 i125-3301-15 (10-2021)
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs20\insrsid4853835 
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb4ec3301045f748fc83e52d4a
9cb2400825e982c78ec7a27cc0c8992416c9d8b2a755fbf74cd25442a820166c2cd933f79e3be372bd1f07b5c3989ca74aaff2422b24eb1b475da5df374fd9ad
5689811a183c61a50f98f4babebc2837878049899a52a57be670674cb23d8e90721f90a4d2fa3802cb35762680fd800ecd7551dc18eb899138e3c943d7e503b6
b01d583deee5f99824e290b4ba3f364eac4a430883b3c092d4eca8f946c916422ecab927f52ea42b89a1cd59c254f919b0e85e6535d135a8de20f20b8c12c3b0
0c895fcf6720192de6bf3b9e89ecdbd6596cbcdd8eb28e7c365ecc4ec1ff1460f53fe813d3cc7f5b7f020000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6
a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4f
c7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b6309512
0f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462
a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f746865
6d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b
4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b
4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b03041400060008000000210085f9739c9f070000d5200000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f
7468656d65312e786d6cec595f8b1bc9117f0fe43b0cf32eebdf8cfe2c960f692479cfdeb58d253bdc63afd49a696fcfb4e86eed5a1c86e07bca4b20700979c8
c1bddd430839b8833bf2920f63b0492e1f22d53da351b7d4b27717074cd85dd8d5f4fcaafad755d555a5eebb9fbd4ca97781b9202cebf9f53b35dfc3d98ccd49
16f7fc67d371a5e37b42a26c8e28cb70cf5f63e17f76efd7bfba8b8e648253ec817c268e50cf4fa45c1e55ab6206c348dc614b9cc1bb05e32992f0c8e3ea9ca3
4bd09bd26aa3566b55534432dfcb500a6a1f2f166486bda952e9dfdb281f5178cca4500333ca274a35b62434767e5e5708b11611e5de05a23d1fe699b3cb297e
297d8f2221e145cfafe91fbf7aef6e151d1542541e9035e4c6faa7902b04e6e70d3d278fcfca4983200c5afd52bf0650b98f1bb547ad51abd4a70168368395e6
5c6c9ded4614145803947f74e81eb687cdba8537f437f738f743f56be13528d71fece1c7e308ac68e13528c7877bf870d01d0c6dfd1a94e35b7bf876ad3f0cda
967e0d4a28c9cef7d0b5b0d58c36ab2d210b468f9df06e188cdb8d42f91605d15046979a62c1327928d652f482f1310014902249324fae9778816610c511a2e4
8c13ef84c40904de12654cc070ad511bd79af057fd06fa93f6283ac2c89056bc8089d81b527c3c31e364297bfe03d0ea1b90b73ffffce6f58f6f5efff4e6abaf
debcfe7b31b75665c91da32c36e57ef9ee0ffff9e6b7debf7ff8f697afff984fbd8b1726fedddf7ef7ee1fff7c9f7a58f1d6146ffff4fdbb1fbf7ffbe7dfffeb
af5f3bb4f7393a33e1539262e13dc297de5396c2021dfcf119bf9ec43441c494e867b1401952b338f48f6462a11fad11450edc00db767cce21d5b880f7572f2c
c29384af2471687c98a416f094313a60dc6985876a2ec3ccd35516bb27e72b13f714a10bd7dc11ca2c2f8f564bc8b1c4a5324ab045f30945994431ceb0f4d43b
768eb163755f1062d9f594cc38136c21bd2f883740c469922939b3a2692b744c52f0cbda4510fc6dd9e6f4b93760d4b5ea21beb091b0371075909f626a99f13e
5a4994ba544e514a4d839f2099b8484ed67c66e2464282a7634c99379a63215c328f39acd770fa4348336eb79fd2756a23b924e72e9d278831133964e75182d2
a50b3b215962623f17e710a2c87bc2a40b7ecaec1da29ec10f283be8eee7045beefe7036780619d6a4b40d10f566c51dbebc8f9915bf93355d20ec4a357d9e5a
29b6cf89333a06abd80aed138c29ba44738cbd679f3b180cd8d2b2f996f48304b2ca317605d60364c7aa7aceb0805e493537fb79f284082b6427386607f89cae
7712cf1a6529e287343f02af9b361f41a94b5d01f098cece4de023023d20c48bd3288f05e83082fba0d62709b20a987a16ee785d73cb7f57d963b02f5f5834ae
b02f41065f5b0612bb29f35edb4c11b526d806cc144197e14ab72062b97f2ba28aab165b39e516f6a6ddba01ba23abe94949f6c10e68a7f709ff77bd0f74186f
fff28d631f7c9c7ec7add84a56d7ec740e2593e39dfee6106eb7ab89189f934fbfa919a255f604431dd9cf58b73dcd6d4fe3ffdff73487f6f36d2773a8dfb8ed
647ce8306e3b99e270e5e37432dbe605fa1a75e0911ff4e8639ff4e0a9cf82503a916b8a4f843ef811f07d663e864125a74f3c71790ab84ce0a32a733081858b
39d2321e67f237442693042de174a8ee2b25b12854c7c25b320187467ad8a95be1e92a3d65f3fcb0b35e57079b796515486ec76b61390e07553247b7dadb03bc
52bd661beb83d60d01257b1d12c6643689a683447b33a88ca48f75c1680e127a651f8545d7c1a2a3d46f5cb5c702a8955e812fdc1e7c4deff96100222004e771
d09ccf959f72576fbcab9df9313d7dc89856044083bd8980ada7bb8aebc1e5a9d5e5a176054f5b248c70b34968cbe8064f24f035b8884e357a151ad7f57577eb
528b9e32859e0f426b4ba3dd791f8b9bfa1ae4767303cdcc4c4133efb2e7b79a2184cc0c2d7bfe020e8de163ba84d811ea3b17a231dcbccc24cf37fc4d32cb92
0b394422c90dae934e9e0d522231f728497bbe5a7ee9069ae91ca2b9d51b90103e59725d482b9f1a3970baed64bc58e09934dd6e8c284be78f90e1f35ce17cab
c56f0e56926c05ee9e24f34bef8caef853042116b6ebca807322e0eea09e5b734ee032ac4c64dbf8db294c45da356fa3740ce5e3882e135454143399e7709dca
4b3afaa9b481f154ac190c6a98a4288467b12ab0a651ad6a5a568d9cc3c1aafb6121653923696e6ba6955554d57467316b864d19d8b1e5cd8abcc16a6362c869
6685cf53f76ecaed6e72dd4e9f5056093078693f47d5bd424130a86d27b3a829c6fb6958e5ec62d4ae1d9b057e80da558a8491f55b1bb53b762b6b84733a18bc
51e507b9dda885a1c5a6afd496d6b7e6e6c5363b7b01c963085dee8a4aa15d0927bb1c414334d13d499e36608bbc94c5d6804fde8a939eff652dec0751238c2a
b54e38aa04cda056e984fd66a51f86cdfa28acd78683c62b282c3249eb617e633f860b0cba2eeeedf5f8dedd7dbab9a3b933636995e9bbf9aa26aeefeeeb8d83
77f75ea3566f7a15f8d768f81e8104f465ab31ee36bb8356a5dbec8f2bc170d0a974a3d6a0326c45ede17818859deef895ef5d6870d06f46416bd4a9b4ea5154
095a35b5944eb7d20e1a8d7ed0ee774641ff55d1d28015f25452d8054cad39defb2f000000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b
010000270000007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba1091
26dd88d0add40384e4350d363f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37
ed1567914b284d262452282e3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a
89672f1f165dfe514173d9850528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000
1300000000000000000000000000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100
000b00000000000000000000000000300100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000000000
0000000000000000190200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d001400060008000000210085f9739c9f070000
d52000001600000000000000000000000000d60200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909f
b60000001b0100002700000000000000000000000000a90a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000a40b00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax376\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef0\lsdunhideuseddef0\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 5;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 9;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 header;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footer;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of figures;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope return;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation reference;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 line number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 page number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote text;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of authorities;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 macro;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 toa heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Closing;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Signature;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Message Header;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Salutation;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Date;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Note Heading;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Block Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 FollowedHyperlink;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Document Map;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Plain Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 E-mail Signature;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Top of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Bottom of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal (Web);\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Acronym;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Cite;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Code;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Definition;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Keyboard;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Preformatted;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Sample;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Typewriter;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Variable;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Table;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation subject;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 No List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Contemporary;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Elegant;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Professional;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Balloon Text;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Theme;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Revision;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;
\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;
\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;\lsdpriority41 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 1;\lsdpriority42 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 2;\lsdpriority43 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 3;\lsdpriority44 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 4;
\lsdpriority45 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 5;\lsdpriority40 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table Light;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 2;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 3;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 3;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 4;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 4;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 6;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 3;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 3;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 3;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 4;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 4;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Mention;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hashtag;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Unresolved Mention;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Link;}}{\*\datastore 01050000
02000000180000004d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e362e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffff0c6ad98892f1d411a65f0040963251e5000000000000000000000000700e
3952d22ad901feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}